05/13/2016 07:12 AM EDT
By Ben Smith (user@domain.com; @BuzzFeedBen) and Daniel Lippman (user@domain.com; @dlippman)
Good Friday morning. It's 66 days to Cleveland, 73 days to Philly, 179 days to election. And mere minutes before my beloved former colleagues at POLITICO regret giving me the keys to Playbook!
Surrender or Rope-A-Dope? So was Paul Ryan's near-embrace of Trump a particularly humiliating sort of "kabuki as prelude to surrender," as my colleague John Stanton suggests? Or, as other observers think, a sort of rope-a-dope that will allow them to blame Trump for the inevitable meltdown? Nobody's made any money this cycle betting Washington Republicans are cleverer than they look, and Ryan sure was accomodating - even when, as Sherman and Bresnahan report, "the New York billionaire suddenly allowed a flock of his campaign advisers inside."  <<link>>
The Trump blacklist: Speaking of establishments deciding whether or not to cave to Trump... the media story remains central this cycle. From the deep tensions in TV newsrooms over giving the candidate unfiltered access to the airwaves to Facebook's rough initiation into the political media business, 2016 is feeding and feeding off the media transformation.
This morning some media figures are denouncing Trump's blacklist of an across-the-spectrum mix of outlets (present company included) from even making it into the restrictive press pens at his events. Mother Jones reported the list of outlets, ranging from National Review to The Daily Beast: <<link>> 
"Reports that Donald Trump's campaign has a 'blacklist' of news outlets barred from getting credentials offends the very idea of a free society and a free press," National Press Club President Thomas Burr told me. "You can call journalists 'disgusting,' or disparage our jobs - we're tough enough to take it - but singling out certain publications for banishment is un-American."
White House Correspondents Association President Carol Lee emails that "the WHCA strongly opposes any attempt by a campaign, government institution or elected official to deny access to specific news organizations or reporters because they don't like the tone or content of their reporting."
Shockingly, Trump aides Corey Lewandowski and Paul Manafort didn't reply to an email asking why they blacklist news outlets.
News from New York: It's not just you, D.C. Nobody at New York dinner parties can stop talking about the Ben Rhodes piece either.
