Why Don't You Want What I Want?
Order this one hour audio presentation today and start listening immediately
Ever notice how some people are able to gain support for their ideas-almost instantly it seems-while others must battle resistance to every single thing they propose?
It's all about influence.
Learning how to influence others-peers, superiors, even your customers-without relying on your position within the org chart is an art and an important one to master, because unfortunately, positional power doesn't actually carry the weight that you think it might.
When you need to achieve your objectives, simply being the "boss" isn't enough - you must have influence.
Mastering the art of influence can be the difference between achieving your goals and objectives and struggling for the resources and attention you need to get things done. When you master the art of influence, you will be highly successful at convincing others to listen to you, commit to your plans, and help you get your ideas off the ground.
So if you've grown tired of fighting resistance to your ideas or change initiatives, join best-selling author, Rick Maurer and learn how to gain others' support and commitment.
Rick Maurer will teach you how to:
Get people's attention. 
Recognize the signs that people are resisting your ideas and plans. 
Express your intentions the right way. 
Consider the context with which you share your ideas or plans. 
Avoid knee-jerk reactions to resistance. 
Align your goals with resistors. 
And more! 
Presented By
Rick Maurer, a renowned change management consultant, expert, speaker and bestselling author, educates audiences on how to get results from major change without headaches, cost overruns, and hidden problems... or Change Without Migraines™.
Rick has worked with business leaders from a variety of companies throughout the world including major Fortune 500 companies, as well as private companies and nonprofits.
Due to the popularity of Rick Maurer's books, Why Don't You Want What I Want?, Beyond the Wall of Resistance, andBuilding Capacity for Change Sourcebook, Rick's opinion has been sought by CNBC, NBC Nightly News, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, Bottom Line, Investor's Business Daily, Fortune, USA Today, The Economist, Industry Week, and Nation's Business.
His expertise helps you identify even deeply hidden resistance, overcome it quickly, and in so doing implement even the most difficult strategic and tactical changes.
Length: 60 minutes
Why CTR Audio Downloads Are Right For You:
Fast, convenient learning without any out-of-office time 
MP3 file can be shared with your entire company 
No travel-related expenses or complications. 
Order Today and Start Listening Right Away! 
The download can go straight into your LMS. The perfect way to train as many employees as you like. Since you are allowed unlimited usage of the download, you can provide to your whole department! 
If you are dissatisfied, you are entitled to a complete refund. 
To order please follow this link: <<link>>
To be immediately excluded from future notifications, 
