In case of “emergency”… see the streaming high holiday services option below…. From: WiseGuide [mailto:user@domain.com] 
Click here to view the web version.UPCOMING EVENTS Join Us for Our Final Elul Shabbat ServiceTomorrow, September 19 | 6:15 p.m. | Sanctuary Prepare for Yom Kippur in a way that will create a shift in your life. This Friday, September 19, Rabbi Eli Herscher will deliver a sermon on: "Repentance: Do We Demand too Little of Ourselves - or Too Much?". We look forward to sharing Shabbat with you.          Info | Contact                   Tickets Have Been Sent for Rosh Hashanah!By now, if you have completed your High Holy Days ticket request via our Wise Connect online system, you should have received your Rosh Hashanah tickets by e-mail. If, for some reason, you have not yet received your e-tickets, please check your spam filter, and if you still did not receive an e-mail from user@domain.com, please contact us. If you did not use Wise Connect to order your tickets, they were sent to you in the mail today. Running Late? Want to Bring a Friend to Services? There is still time to request your tickets if you haven't already or if you would like to purchase additional tickets for guests. Please log in to Wise Connect with the username and password we provided you or call 310.889.2394 and we can help you over the phone. We look forward to seeing you at the High Holy Days!         Info | Contact                   S'lihot Service
Join our Rabbis, Cantor Nathan Lam, our cantorial interns Sarah Zerbib-Berda and Kyle Cotler and our professional choir under the direction of Dr. Iris Levine, for our moving S’lihot service at Wise. Through music and beautiful rituals, this service directs our hearts and minds to the process of teshuvah, or turning inward on S’lihot for spiritual preparation and forgiveness. S’lihot is part of the process to prepare us for the 10 Days of Repentance, Aseret Y’may Teshuvah and inspire us to enter the High Holy Day period.         Contact                   Streaming High Holy Days Services Online
Contact                   Shofars, Honey Jars, Kiddush Cups, and Candlesticks
Contact                    Watch Rabbi Stern's Elul Shabbat Sermon Online  
Info | Contact        MAZAL TOVSTo our B'nai Mitzvah: Wishing you a future filled with joy and blessings. May the Torah guide and inspire you every day of your adult life. Mazal tov to:  Stephanie and Jeff Jacobs and family on the Bat Mitzvah of their daughter, Emily Gentille and Terry Koosed and family on the marriage of their daughter, Tamar and Philip Koosed, and Jessica and Joshua Etting on the marriage of their sister, Oliver and Sawyer Etting, and Asher Koosed on the marriage of their aunt, and to Amanda Koosed and Max Roessler on their marriage Sheryl and Kenneth Pressberg and family on the marriage of their son, Erica Pressberg and David Pressberg on the marriage of their brother, and to Jennifer Schneiderman and Matthew Pressberg on their marriage Ron and Gloria Gurvitz and family on the marriage of their son, Allison Gurvitz and Matthew Gurvitz on the marriage of their brother, and to Sasha Campbell and Steven Gurvitz on their marriage Sharon Rowe and Ken Gross and family on the marriage of their daughter, Rachel Gross and Benjamin Gross on the marriage of their sister, and to Rebecca Gross and Oren Friedman on their marriage We would like to hear about the simchas in your life. If you or someone you know has recently had a baby, wedding, engagement, or any other simcha, our Clergy and community would like to share in it with you. Click here to inform us or email user@domain.com. CONDOLENCES Our Wise community extends our deepest sympathy and support to those who are mourning the loss of a loved one.  Linda Riff and family on the loss of her husband, Mayer Riff Roberta and Kenneth Lloyd and family on the loss of his mother, Joshua Lloyd, Stacey Lloyd, and Jessica Lloyd and Michael Gold on the loss of their grandmother, and to Adam Gold on the loss of his great-grandmother, Harriet Lloyd Nas and Alen Cohen and family on the loss of her mother, and to Kiley and Kora on the loss of their grandmother, Marcelle Rabbani Shelley Spiegel and Ira Brown and family on the loss of his mother, and to Joshua Spiegel-Brown and Rachel Spiegel-Brown on the loss of their grandmother, Sarah Marilyn Brown Lori Rubin and family on the loss of her mother, and to Rachel Rubin on the loss of her grandmother, Sylvia Rubin Terry Wunder and family on the loss of his grandmother, Lois Light TRIBUTESWe honor people through charitable giving.  RABBIS’ DISCRETIONARY FUNDIN HONOR OF: the marriage of their son, Matthew to Jennifer Schneiderman, by Sheryl and Kenneth Pressberg Rabbi Yoshi Zweiback, by Bruce Lerner IN MEMORY OF: Hans Erlanger, by the Leveton and Kingsdale Families FUND SUPPORTING ISRAEL PROGRAMSIN MEMORY OF: Allan Freeman, by Donna and Ron Bender and family MAX HESS LIBRARY FUNDIN MEMORY OF: Max Hess, by Michele and Jim Hess Max Hess, by the Anderson, Ossip, Perel/Katz, Mashian, Resnick, and Stupp Families Allan Freeman, by the Anderson and Boujo Families METUKA BENJAMIN SCHOLARSHIP FUNDIN HONOR OF: the forthcoming marriage of Erin Kurtzman and Kevin Weiser, by Sara and Irwin Tauben a donation, by Shelly and Don Levy IN MEMORY OF: Allan Freeman, by Susan, Jon, Sami and Carly Berger DIENER AND KADNER FAMILIES LIBRARY FUNDIN MEMORY OF: Sadie Goldberg and Jonas Bienenfeld, by Renee and Robert Bienenfeld GENERAL FUNDIN MEMORY OF: Louis Jarcho, by Marjie, Bob, Allie, and Caroline Gross WISE PROGRAMMING FUNDIN MEMORY OF: Sarah Esther Baumann, by Terrie and Richard Baumann SOCIAL JUSTICE FUNDIN MEMORY OF: Sylvia Rubin, by Diane Kabat YAHRZEIT FUNDIN MEMORY OF: Boris Gutman, by Frida Donner Minnie Greenberg, by Millie Pecora and family  THANK YOU We appreciate our wonderful Nosh Volunteers and Greeters. Thank you for making Shabbat a welcoming experience for all!  Norma CooperSusan FirestonePeggy Wehrle This Week's Torah Portion S'lihot Shabbat Services for Friday, September 19 - Saturday, September 20Friday, September 19: 6:15 p.m. | Elul Shabbat Service (see description at left) | Rabbi Eli Herscher and Cantor Nathan Lam | SanctuarySaturday, September 20: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan | Rabbi Spike Anderson and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Hershenson HallContact ClergyRosh Hashanah Services for Wednesday, September 24 - Friday, September 26 Wednesday, September 24: Various times | Erev Rosh Hashanah Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule. Thursday, September 25: Various times | Rosh Hashanah Day Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule. Friday, September 26: 10 a.m. | 2nd Day Rosh Hashanah Service | SanctuaryTickets are not required for this service. Contact ClergyShabbat Services for Friday, September 26 - Saturday, September 27Friday, September 26: 6:15 p.m. | Shabbat Service | Rabbi Ron Stern and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Plotkin ChapelSaturday, September 27: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan | Dennis Prager and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Hershenson HallContact ClergyLive Streaming for our Shabbat Service on the Web
If you or someone you know is home-bound, unable to travel to our campus, or if you are unable to attend services, visit www.WiseLA.org/Live to watch our Friday evening Shabbat Services. Streaming is available on all computers, as well as supported mobile devices, including iPhones and iPads. We look forward to sharing Shabbat with you – both in person and over the web!  SCHOOL CALENDARSEarly Childhood
Calendar | ContactK-6
| Contact
Calendar | Contact CONNECTPhone: 310.476.8561 Web: WiseLA.org Like us on Facebook  Follow us on Twitter  Send us an EmailIf your spouse or partner (or someone else you know) would like to be added to the WiseGuide weekly email list,or if you wish to inform us about a lifecycle event, email user@domain.com. Shabbat Shalom   This message was sent to user@domain.com from:WiseGuide | user@domain.com | Stephen S. Wise Temple | 15500 Stephen S. Wise Drive | Los Angeles, CA 90077Email Marketing by  Manage Your Subscription 