Comrades,
Recently the Romanian National Vanguard Party asked me if I would agree to do an interview with their News Agency. 
That interview is now available at: <<link>>  
Exclusive Interview with Commander Jeff Schoep of the NSM!
Romanian National Vanguard: Hello commander. Let 's start the interview. Could you please introduce yourself to our readers?
Romanian National Vanguard: You are leading the most powerful nationalist organization in America are you proud of it?
Commander Jeff Schoep: I would preffer to use the word Honored. I am Honored to be a part of America 's Leading NS group. We take pride in our actions, and face the enemy in the streets.
Romanian National Vanguard: How did you managed to make N.S.M. so powerful?
Romanian National Vanguard: Some white nationalists criticize the NSM for using the NSDAP German uniforms but despite that, NSM attracted more people then any other nationalist organization ever could!
Commander Jeff Schoep: Yes, some people do not like our uniforms or even our symbols, more often than not, those who criticize us are only making excuses for their own inaction, or cowardice in the face of the enemy hordes that face the White Race. Some people who criticize us just disagree, and that is their opinion, when they start outdoing our efforts, then perhaps I will consider their ways, but for now their words are meaningless and empty. Commander Rockwell (famous U.S. NS) wore the same uniform as we do, we Honor our Fallen Leader.
Romanian National Vanguard: The NSM had a small downfall after the Lansing rally but now I see things are better than ever.
Romanian National Vanguard: NSM has a lot of websites, a recording studio, forums, a radio station, a game studio, a shop. It has all things except one. Do you think you could make a national TV station in the nearby future?
Commander Jeff Schoep: Wow, that would be nice! It would cost probably millions or billions of dollars to have a National tv station. That is not within our reach at this time. We could however strive to further develop internet tv, some more workers and potential hosts for such a venture could prove very effective for the NSM and NS causes Worldwide.
Romanian National Vanguard: For 2008, the NSM has a presidential candidate. Will he appear on TV? Will we see him on TV debating and talking?
Romanian National Vanguard: The last two rallies the NSM held were very interesting and many people showed up. Tell me is NSM growing even more?
Romanian National Vanguard: How did the protest at the mexican consulate from Omaha, 1 September went?
Romanian National Vanguard: Now that you have a big building, a headquarters. Have you ever thought on holding any international conferences for the World Union of National Socialists hosted there?
Romanian National Vanguard: There are so many questions to ask but I 'm sure you don 't have the necessary time so I 'm just happy I got the chance to ask these. Thank you commander for this wonderful interview. We wish you best luck!
Commander Jeff Schoep: Thank you, and best of luck to our Romanian Brothers and Sisters who fight for NS and National Pride in Romania.
This entry was posted on September 10, 2007 at 6:15 am and is filed under Interviews. You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed. You can leave a response or trackback from your own site. 
