Crew,
Here is a real opportunity for letters! The article is
not really a statement; it's more of a question.
The title is "What is schools' duty in children's
mental health?"
Well, I think we can tell them!
Here's the article:
<<link>>
TEXT AT BOTTOM
Write whatever you want with a couple of requests.
DO NOT MENTION TEENSCREEN BY NAME, unless you fit into
one of the categories below.
If your last name begins with C, put a link to the
TeenScreen petition in your letter. Don't mention
TeenScreen by name in the letter, just that this
petition to defend parental rights and stop intrusive
mental health screening is either "very important", or
"now has about 10,000 signatures", or "everyone should
see this".
If your last name begins with A or M, DO mention
TeenScreen by name, stating that people should search
out the term "TeenScreen" on the web and see for
themselves how unpopular mental health screening is,
or something like that.
Send your letter to The Kansas City Star
August 23, 2006
What is schools' duty in children's mental health?
AS I SEE IT
David Chartrand
A curious nation has witnessed the ongoing shouting
match in Kansas over teaching evolution in schools.
Soon, all eyes may turn from the state school board in
Topeka to a courtroom in Olathe, where hearings are
scheduled on a Lenexa mother's lawsuit against the
Shawnee Mission School District in connection with the
suicide deaths of her two sons.
District Judge James Vano should let the case proceed
so that Kansas can host an overdue national discussion
about a school's duty in regard to the mental health
of children and their families.
In the suit, Barbara Mares of Lenexa claims that
improper training of teachers and counselors at
Shawnee Mission West High School led to the suicide of
16-year-old Jason Mares in February of 2003, followed
seven months later by the suicide of his grieving
brother, Justin, 18. What happened to the Mares teens
is a heart-rending saga of claims and counterclaims.
The larger issue, however, is not the allegations by
the mother but the reply of the school system. In
seeking dismissal of the suit, the Shawnee Mission
district asserts a defense of no responsibility. A
suicide, the district argues, is an "unforeseeable"
event that a school system has no duty to prevent,
especially if it occurs off campus.
While mental health experts would disagree about the
unforeseen nature of suicide, preventability opens a
Pandora's box full of hornet nests.
If a tragedy is preventable, then doesn't someone have
a duty to prevent it? And if there is a duty, what are
the rules? More importantly, how does a school system
hold itself out as a champion of children and a
partner with parents while disavowing responsibility
for the emotional well-being of students? On the other
hand, do we want schools, governments or anyone else
meddling with the mental health of our kids?
If Kansas parents are conflicted about schools
teaching their children evolution and sex, how would
they react if the Shawnee Mission district announced
tomorrow that it planned to institute mental health
screenings for all students (something recommended by
President Bush's New Freedom Commission on Mental
Health)?
These questions are too important for schools to
ignore or courts to dismiss. Since the early 1970s,
federal civil-rights laws have required schools and
universities to address both the physical and
emotional disabilities of children.
How far this duty extends is frequently wondered in
quiet by grieving families. Kansas might as well
discuss it on a well-lit stage. The nation is already
watching us.
David Chartrand is a writer from Olathe. He's working
on a book examining suicide in Johnson County.
Letters: user@domain.com 
And report compliance by email.
Much Love,
Doyle
