NSM to march in Omaha bringing attention to the illegal alien burden on our Nation and the European-American community as a whole, Sept. 1st be there! 
After Event Party
LIVE BANDS - SWASTIKA LIGHTING - FOOD
National Socialist Movement on the March against illegal aliens, next stop Omaha!  
<<link>>   
Join the NSM in Omaha for this patriotic event! If you love America and cherish our European culture and heritage you WILL be in Omaha or support the NSM in this endeavor to fight the illegal alien invasion.  Illegal's use up our resources! You pay taxes and they give the illegal aliens healthcare, education, housing assistance and more! Further more, do to antiquated laws written by Caucasians' for Caucasians before the government could have ever imagined that we would be host to 3rd world cultures - the illegal aliens pop out little enchiladas and they are given citizenship status - this law is insane as it rewards criminals!
Join us in Omaha - let's send a clear and present message to the Mexican Consulate and the greedy corporate owned Republicans and diversity loving Democrats, both paid for in full by AI-PAC, that are temporally occupying our Senate, House and White House that Americans will not take their treasonous actions against our land and people any longer!
Change is made by those who have the courage to stand up and be counted! So many White people feel as we do though only will discuss it over the dinner table - it's time to make a sacrifice like our Founding Fathers had before us - this is nothing less than your patriotic duty!  
For those who stand with us in Omaha, there will be a great after event party on private property.  There will be many bands playing music, food, a Swastika lighting and much more fun and games!
"In the beginning of a change the patriot is a scarce man, and brave, and hated and scorned. When his cause succeeds, the timid join him, for then it costs nothing to be a patriot."
Come see Total War, and special guest bands playing Live on private property near Omaha after the show! All Pro-White groups and individuals welcome.
Paste this notice on all Pro-White Boards, e-lists, websites, and other places White people can be made aware of this event. 
Hail Victory! Commander Schoep/ National Socialist Movement www.nsm88.com 
Visit other NSM and NSM supported sites here:
www.nsm88records.com  www.nsm88radio.com  www.newsaxon.org  www.nukeisrael.com and many more. 
