By Isaac Arnsdorf | 05/16/2016 02:00 PM EDT
With help from Brianna Gurciullo and Mary Lee
PAPER CHASE: The first white papers out of House Speaker Paul Ryan's working groups, formed after the Republican retreat in January, are expected in the next few weeks, CGCN Group partner Sam Geduldig said in a note to clients today. The "Reducing Regulatory Burdens" task force will address changes to the regulatory process, such as how agencies use scientific data, Geduldig said. Also, the House Financial Services Committee will produce a white paper on Dodd-Frank reforms in late June.
The white papers give House Republicans a chance to plot out an agenda without needing 218 votes. "But this channeling tactic has its limits: Many members, feeling the heat of the Trump era, are searching for more than just white papers," wrote Geduldig, who used to work for Speaker John Boehner. "With few opportunities left to satisfy voter discontent, member agitation is growing steadily." One sign of the strain is how traditionally low-key conference meetings "now resemble the raucous town hall meetings in congressional districts that play out on YouTube."
One achievement Republicans probably will be able to point to on the campaign trail is the Toxic Substances Control Act, according to Geduldig. The House and Senate seem to have a deal, which includes industry's top priority: preempting a patchwork of state regulation. CGCN lobbies for the American Chemistry Council.
MORAN FOR NORTHROP: Former Rep. Jim Moran (D-Va.), now at McDermott Will & Emery, registered to lobby for Northrop Grumman on the space telescope and defense authorization and appropriations. Moran's first clients earlier this year were General Dynamics and Boeing.
UPLOAD: The filing is up for Dropbox's new head of U.S. government affairs, Becky Tallent. The company's first in-house registration names the issues of privacy protection, intellectual property, patent protection, patent reform, copyright protection, copyright compliance, law enforcement surveillance of digital data, workforce and education in tech. The data storage company is also represented by the Franklin Square Group, Glover Park Group and Joseph Group.
HAPPY MONDAY! Please send tips to user@domain.com.
RUN THE WORLD: When congressional fundraising demands give you lemons, make LEMONADE - Rep. Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio) is having a fundraiser at Beyonc&eacute;'s concert in Baltimore next month. A pair of tickets go for $3,500 for PACs.
- FTI Consulting is hosting lunch tomorrow for Jimmy Panetta (D-Calif.), featuring DCCC Chairman Ben Ray Luj&aacute;n.
- Rep. Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.), chair of the House Democratic Caucus, will hold a fundraiser tonight at the Capitol Hill home of Obama White House alum Stephanie Valencia and Oscar Ramirez of the Podesta Group. Co-hosts include Edward An of Google, Javier Martinez of DaVita, Adam Goldberg of Anthem, Dontai L. Smalls of UPS, Alex Ginis of the Credit Union National Association, Jason Rodriguez of S&P Global, Chris Rauscher of SunRun, and Claudia James and Anna Weinstein of the Podesta Group.
CAN'T STOP WON'T STOP: Former House Speaker John Boehner is NOT riding quietly into the sunset, and we don't just mean his headline-making asides. POLITICO's Jake Sherman reports Boehner will hit the road for all of August raising money for incumbent House Republicans. Sources say his cross-country bus, dubbed "Freedom One," will kick off after the RNC in Cleveland and end Labor Day weekend. While in office, Boehner spent nearly every weekend on the road and raked in $300 million from 2009 to last year.
TREMORS IN KOCH WORLD: Charles and David Koch are pulling back from federal politics to focus more on their business and public-relations interests, Tim Alberta and Eliana Johnson report for the National Review. The billionaire brothers resisted pressure to attack Donald Trump and have reduced budgets, overhauled departments, cut grants and let executives go. Conservative groups including the Chamber of Commerce, NRA and Club for Growth are feeling the pinch from the stepbacks and looking to possible big-money successors: TD Ameritrade founder Joe Ricketts and hedge-fund billionaire Paul Singer.
MOVERS:
- Victoria Luxardo Jeffries joined Univision's Washington office as associate general counsel & vice president of public policy, reporting to Jessica Herrera-Flanigan. Working with Bert Gomez on government relations advocacy and with Chris Wood on FCC-related matters, she'll cover privacy, competition, intellectual property, FTC matters and data protection practices. She most recently worked at the law firm Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati and previously was part of Netflix's global public policy team.
- Steven W. Hawkins, most recently serving as executive director of Amnesty International USA, is the new president of bipartisan criminal justice reform organization the Coalition for Public Safety. The coalition's members are ACLU, Americans for Tax Reform, the Center for American Progress, the Faith & Freedom Coalition, FreedomWorks, the Leadership Conference Education Fund, NAACP and Right on Crime.
- Lauren Sinclair is leaving CRAFT for Feinstein Kean Healthcare, Ogilvy's health care PR agency.
GUN CHECK: The NRA Institute for Legislative Action is pushing back on a Nevada ballot question that would establish a universal background check for gun purchases in the state, The Associated Press reports. The new regulation would include private sales online and at gun shows. Michael Bloomberg donated $2.9 million to Nevadans for Background Checks.
You're Invited - Playbook Breakfast with Secretary Ernest Moniz: POLITICO's Chief White House Correspondent Mike Allen and POLITICO Energy Reporter Darius Dixon take Playbook live for a conversation with U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz. Wednesday, May 18 - Doors at 7:30 a.m. - The W Hotel. RSVP: <<link>>
TEE TIME: The 2016 Politics & Pros Golf Classic benefiting The First Tee of Greater Washington teed off this morning at The Country Club at Woodmore. Guests included 2015 Quicken Loans National Champion Troy Merritt, LPGA Tour Player Cheyenne Woods, PGA Tour Player Billy Hurley III and LPGA Tour Player Ashlan Ramsey, Reps. Jim Clyburn (D-S.C., co-chair), Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla., co-chair), Pat Meehan (R-Pa., co-chair), John Yarmuth (D-Ky.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.), Steve Knight (R-Calif.), Scott Peters (D-Calif.) and Albio Sires (D-N.J.).
NEW PAC REGISTRATIONS:
36 for Bernie: Pledged Delegates for CA CD 36 (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
Citizens for Safe Communities (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Coalition for Progressive Leadership (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Effective Leadership for America (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Louisiana Liberty Alliance (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Monroe Energy LLC Fueling the Climb Political Action Committee (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
Sunshine Solutions PAC (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:
Alpine Group, Inc.: Ascensia Diabetes Care US Inc.
Capital Partnerships LLC: Capitol Initiatives Group
Capitol Associates, Inc.: Zimmer Biomet, Inc.
David Radi: IAP Worldwide Services, Inc.
DeBrunner & Associates, Inc.: Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center
Dropbox, Inc.: Dropbox, Inc.
Federal Advocates, Inc.: Prairie Meadows
Harbinger Strategies, LLC: International Council of Shopping Centers, Inc.
K&L Gates LLP: US Water Alliance
McDermott Will & Emery LLP: Northrop Grumman
McGuireWoods Consulting (a subsidiary of McGuireWoods LLP): Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services
Mr. Alexander Levine: Citizens for Reform
Mr. Alexander Levine: Democrats for the Constitution
Navigators Global LLC (formerly DC Navigators, LLC): Related EB-5 Regional Center Holdings LLC
O'Connell & Dempsey, LLC: Save The Bay
Policy Navigation Group: Edison Electric Institute
Summit Strategies Government Affairs LLC: Rail Security Alliance
Summit Strategies Government Affairs LLC: Just Greens LLC (formerly known as Aerofarms)
Thorn Run Partners: Imprivata, Inc.
Thorn Run Partners: T-Mobile USA, Inc.
W Strategies, LLC: McKesson Corporation
NEW LOBBYING TERMINATIONS:
Law Office of Harry Johnson: City of Houston
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
