<x-flowed>Sorry this kept you awake...but I have also found it a rather alarming 
graph.  First, a disclaimer/explanation.
The graph patches together 3 things: Mann et al  NH mean annual temps + 2 
sigma standard error for AD1000-1980, + instrumental data for 1981-1998 + 
IPCC ("do not quote, do not cite" projections for GLOBAL temperature for 
the next 100 years, relative to 1998.  The range of shading represents 
several models of projected emissions scenarios as input to GCMs, but the 
GCM mean global temperature output (as I understand it) was then reproduced 
by Sarah Raper's energy balance model, and it is those values that are 
plotted.  Keith pointed this out to me; I need to go back & read the IPCC 
TAR to understand why they did that, but it makes no difference to the 
first order result....neither does it matter that the projection is global 
rather than NH....the important point is that the range of estimates far 
exceeds the range estimated by Mann et al in their reconstruction.  Keith 
also said that the Hadley Center GCM runs are being archived at CRU, so it 
ought to be possible to get that data and simply compute the NH variability 
for the projected period & add that to the figure, but it will not add much 
real information.  However, getting such data would allow us to extract 
(say) a summer regional series for the Arctic and to then plot it versus 
the Holocene melt record from Agassiz ice cap....or....well, you can see 
other possiblities.
[......At this point Keith Alverson throws up his hands in despair at the 
ignorance of non-model amateurs...]
But there are real questions to be asked of the paleo 
reconstruction.  First, I should point out that we calibrated versus 
1902-1980, then "verified" the approach using an independent data set for 
1854-1901.  The results were good, giving me confidence that if we had a 
comparable proxy data set for post-1980 (we don't!) our proxy-based 
reconstruction would capture that period well.  Unfortunately, the proxy 
network we used has not been updated, and furthermore there are many/some/ 
tree ring sites where there has been a "decoupling" between the long-term 
relationship between climate and tree growth, so that things fall apart in 
recent decades....this makes it very difficult to demonstrate what I just 
claimed.  We can only call on evidence from many other proxies for 
"unprecedented" states in recent years (e.g. glaciers, isotopes in tropical 
ice etc..).  But there are (at least) two other problems -- Keith Briffa 
points out that the very strong trend in the 20th century calibration 
period accounts for much of the success of our calibration and makes it 
unlikely that we would be able be able to reconstruct such an extraordinary 
period as the 1990s with much success (I may be mis-quoting him somewhat, 
but that is the general thrust of his criticism).  Indeed, in the 
verification period, the biggest "miss" was an apparently very warm year in 
the late 19th century that we did not get right at all.  This makes 
criticisms of the "antis" difficult to respond to (they have not yet risen 
to this level of sophistication, but they are "on the 
scent").  Furthermore, it may be that Mann et al simply don't have the 
long-term trend right, due to underestimation of low frequency info. in the 
(very few) proxies that we used.  We tried to demonstrate that this was not 
a problem of the tree ring data we used by re-running the reconstruction 
with & without tree rings, and indeed the two efforts were very similar -- 
but we could only do this back to about 1700.  Whether we have the 1000 
year trend right is far less certain (& one reason why I hedge my bets on 
whether there were any periods in Medieval times that might have been 
"warm", to the irritation of my co-authors!).  So, possibly if you crank up 
the trend over 1000 years, you find that the envelope of uncertainty is 
comparable with at least some of the future scenarios, which of course begs 
the question as to what the likely forcing was 1000 years ago. (My money is 
firmly on an increase in solar irradiance, based on the 10-Be data..). 
Another issue is whether we have estimated the totality of uncertainty in 
the long-term data set used -- maybe the envelope is really much larger, 
due to inherent characteristics of the proxy data themselves....again this 
would cause the past and future envelopes to overlap.
In Ch 7 we will try to discuss some of these issues, in the limited space 
available.  Perhaps the best thing at this stage is to simply point out the 
inherent uncertainties and point the way towards how these uncertainties 
can be reduced.  Malcolm & I are working with Mike Mann to do just that.
I would welcome other thoughts and comments on any of this!
Ray
