The National Socialist Movement 
is really the National Satanist Movement! 
NSM is still owned and operated by the hardcore 
JOY  OF SATAN DEVIL-WORSHIPPING CULT!
By Jim Ramm
As one of Jeff Schoep's close personal advisors for over three years,
it was my job to attempt to hide the multiple skeletons in the NSM closet. 
One of the largest secrets was that Satanist-Chairman Herrington 
never really left the NSM.
Herrington owns the papers of incorporation for the National Socialist Movement and will always be deeply involved with the group. This  is the 
NSM's public relations nightmare which refuses to go away: 
Clifford                      Herrington's wife Maxine is  the high priestess for the
JOY OF SATAN CULT, a  collection of weirdos and freaks who 
waste their time sucking satan's ass.Your donations and profits
from NSM 88 records sales are going towards funding these madmen. 
CHAIRMAN HERRINGTON'S JOY OF SATAN WEBSITE 
Just in  case anyone want to start blowing the hairy horned god from hell,
here's how to do  it from freakish Joy of satan website:
"What happens when I make a formal commitment to Satan?
Almost immediately, things start to get better, Satan looks out for his own. Satan gives us an inner strength and we become very strong in spirit. Unlike right hand path religions, where adherents are forever praying and searching for their god, Satan comes to us on his own. Many times, we can feel him. He comes to comfort us when we get down, worried or are experiencing problems.
He snaps us into line and directs us as to what we need to do to be focused and happy. Unlike the false god Jehova and his cohorts, Satan never turns his back on us in our time of need.
Write the following prayer:
Before the almighty and ineffable God Satan/Lucifer and in the presence of all Demons ofHell, who are the True and the Original gods, I, (state your full name) renounce any and all past allegiances. I renounce the false Judeo/Christian god Jehova, I renounce his vile and worthless son Jesus Christ, I renounce his foul, odious, and rotten holy spirit.
I proclaim Satan Lucifer as my one and only God. I promise to recognize and honor him in all things, without reservation, desiring in return, his manifold assistance in the successful completion of my endeavors.
It is imporant to bathe before any rituals you perform, this is done out of respect. When you are ready, you can light the candle. Take the needle, prick the idex finger of your left hand, squeeze some blood out.
Sign your name in blood. Recite the prayer either aloud or in your head
Fold the paper and let it burn in the fire of the candle. Many of us have stayed and meditated until the candle had burned itself out.
At the end of the ritual, close with the words "so mote it be."
And a Big "HAIL SATAN!!"
Jeff Schoep has known for over a decade that Herrington and his insane wife were into the hardcore devilshit. Herrington has always been working actively behind the scenes, guiding the mentally-challenged Jeff Schoep. Herrington is like a father to Jeff, he many now lie and say that Herrington is gone but the real truth is that he has never left. It will always be Clifford Herrington's party and he will always be the real force behind Jeff's actions. Comparing Schoep 
to Star Wars, he is a  much like Darth Vader: An empty soul who exists
only to do the bidding of his master  who is the emperor or chairman.... 
Jeff is merely the proxy for the Devil-worshipping nutcase 
Chairman Herrington who is and whom will always be in charge of the NSM.
