To view this email as a web page, click here
Dear Alberto,
We're all in a race to make the most of our data. But so much of what we do is sitting on technology that was invented 40 years ago based on 1970's data. We need more agility and power for today's business requirements, data complexity and data variety. Do you have a platform that gives you the best advantage?
Find out how organizations are using Enterprise NoSQL to reimagine and redefine everything from search and applications, to data storage to infrastructure. The annual MarkLogic Summit is a gathering of global visionaries who have helped define the opportunities — and the solutions — and they are ready to share their ideas with you. 
Join us at the MarkLogic Summit Series. Learn how, using Enterprise NoSQL:
A tier-1 global bank discovered they could create new instrument types in hours – rather than days, weeks, or even months
A media firm now creates custom feeds in 1/100th the time
A local government agency shut down expensive legacy systems by enabling data integration with modern technologies
The BBC dynamically published thousands of webpages during the Olympics – with just 14 journalists – and continues to push ahead on new publishing paradigms
You don't have to lower your enterprise expectations for resiliency, reliability or security when implementing NoSQL. In fact, you can expect to do even more with new-generation technologies. 
Join us for a first look at MarkLogic 7 and see how you can:
Leverage the power of semantics to make new discoveries and create richer, more relevant applications
Ensure you store data economically — and search it with ease
Build agility into your architecture so you can leverage new technologies like Hadoop or cloud computing
Quickly bring together data from many disparate data silos and enable real-time read/write access for analytics and applications 
You wouldn't race against a Tesla in your daddy's Ford – why are you counting on his technology to help you win today's data race?
London
15 October 2013
9:00am – 5:00pm
RSVP Now »
Copyright © 2013 MarkLogic Corporation. All rights reserved.
If you no longer wish to receive these emails, click on the following link: Unsubscribe
