05/10/2016 07:30 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Tuesday morning, Illinois. In this unceasing state budget fight, Dems (and a former Republican governor) have long accused Gov. Bruce Rauner of holding the budget hostage until the Legislature approved his pro-business, anti-union agenda. 
Now Rauner has gone on tour accusing Democrats of plotting to hold hostage K-12 schools by demanding an immediate overhaul to the state's school funding system. Last year, schools opened on time despite a budget stalemate because the Democratic-controlled Legislature gave Rauner a separate education spending plan that he signed. He vetoed the rest of the budget. This session, Rauner says Democrats are scheming to keep schools from opening in the Fall by demanding an immediate education funding formula overhaul that the governor calls a "bailout" for Chicago schools. 
Not in Madigan's playbook: But a high-level Democrat close to House Speaker Mike Madigan tells Illinois Playbook the speaker has no desire or intention of delaying school openings in the fall. The discussion over a funding formula overhaul timed for this session has largely played out in the Illinois Senate. The source says Madigan believes the strategy of attempting to leverage school openings in order to pass a full state budget is a losing gambit, saying it could be viewed as placing the interest of children on equal footing with even the most mundane of spending. 
So what's the most likely legislative budget scenario? Similar to last year: Lawmakers are required to put forward a budget and it's likely be a Democratic plan (surprise!). Rauner will have the option to veto it in its entirety as he did in 2015 (with the exception of K-12) or use reduction veto power to fund certain services that suffered over the last year like higher ed, social services, rape crisis centers, senior services, etc. It's unclear how Chicago schools would fare in such a scenario, however. That's something Senate Pres. John Cullerton sought to address in his formula change push. 
WRONG TO HOLD SCHOOLS 'HOSTAGE' -- "Rauner: Dems Holding School Budget Hostage," by WLS-AM News' Bill Cameron: "Rauner is now claiming the Democrats are holding the state school budget hostage. 'They're screaming and saying it's got to change this year and it can't go further and they've threatened to hold up school funding and school opening in the fall for a new school funding formula,' Rauner said. 'That's wrong. Our schools should not be held hostage.' ... Absent from his negotiating points was Rauner's willingness to raise the state income tax to achieve a grand compromise." <<link>> 
GIVE IT TO ME CLEAN -- "Rauner renews push for 'clean' school funding bill; Democrats back overhaul," Lee Enterprises' Dan Petrella: "Gov. Bruce Rauner is renewing his call for a 'clean' bill to fund elementary and secondary education next school year ... The governor has said he supports changing the way the state distributes money to school districts, but he wants to fully fund the current formula while lawmakers continue to work on those changes. If lawmakers approve his plan, it'd mark the first time in seven years that districts would receive the whole amount state law says they should." <<link>> 
VIDEO HERE: "Rauner: Democrats could delay school openings to bail out Chicago schools," by Daily Herald's Mick Zawislak: "'We cannot let the General Assembly hold up school funding, hold up our schools opening in the fall to get a Chicago schools bailout,' he said. Rauner shared a similar message later Monday morning at Lyons Township High School in LaGrange, adding he wants schools to be fully funded at their per-student 'foundation' levels." <<link>> 
CULLERTON SAYS RAUNER'S PLAN HURTS SCHOOLS -- Cullerton's response to Rauner on Monday: "Governor Rauner said in his budget speech that no schools should lose funding, and yet more than one-third of the school districts in Illinois lose money under his plan. He would force schools across Illinois to slash services and staff. Some might not be able to open or stay open next year. Chicago schools alone lose $74 million. Governor Rauner's plan cuts funding for schools in East St. Louis and Naperville as well." 
THE QUOTE: A veteran Democratic operative talking about the Rauner era in Springfield: "In the Civil War we had a budget. In the first War World we had a budget. In the Great Depression we had a budget. In the second World War we had a budget. 18 months ago we had a budget. We don't have a budget now. What's the only difference?" 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
RAHM EMANUEL PICKETED OUTSIDE FUNDRAISER -- "Chicago Housing, Police Accountability Advocates Picket Emanuel Fundraiser Over CHA Practices," by Progress Illinois' Aricka Flowers: "Police accountability and housing activists are pushing back against city government as Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel attempts to replenish his campaign coffers at his first fundraiser since the Laquan McDonald shooting video was released. The activists are picketing at Emanuel's pricey Monday night fundraiser, which costs individuals $5,400 while corporations are required to cough up $10,000. The event is being held at the home of real estate developer Robert Winslow ... 
"Affordable housing advocates are calling on the mayor to make 'substantive reforms' to the Chicago Housing Authority (CHA), including a complete overhaul of the agency's policies ... The Chicago Housing Initiative ... blasting the agency for reportedly hoarding about 6,000 housing vouchers and 2,800 vacant units while more than 120,000 needy families sit idle on the agency's waitlist." <<link>> 
DISTRICT 211 TRANSGENDER BATTLE GETS ACLU -- First look: The ACLU of Illinois is moving to intervene in a lawsuit filed last week against school District 211, the Dept. of Justice and the U.S. Dept. of Education that seeks to reverse a decision allowing a transgender student limited access to a female locker room. 
The ACLU plans to announce later today its intended involvement in this latest round of the ongoing fight. From ACLU's Director of Communications and Public Policy Edwin Yohnka: "Since the lawsuit and public announcement of the filing, we have been in regular contact with our client, Student A, and her family. We have spoken out through the media regularly to point out the factual misstatements and hurtful personal attacks made against our client ... parents and students from District 211 have ... expressed anger at the misstatements and factual inaccuracies advanced by those filing the lawsuit last week. More have voiced concern about any effort to reverse policies that treat all students,
including those who are transgender, in a fair and equitable way ... 
"We believe that these voices from the school district deserve to be heard as part of this process. In the coming days, the ACLU will file a motion with the court to intervene in the proceedings to represent a group of parents and students from District 211, as well as others. We look forward to working vigorously to defeat this attempt to turn back the clock and re-install discrimination in the District 211 schools. We remain confident that fairness for students who are transgender will prevail." 
CITY VIOLENCE  
JUST WHEN IT WAS LOOKING BETTER -- "8 Killed, 46 Wounded In Deadliest Weekend Since September 2015," by DNAinfo's Alex Nitkin: "Shootings around the city left eight people dead and another 46 wounded between Friday morning and Monday morning, police said, making it Chicago's most violent weekend in nearly eight months, police said. Three people were gunned down, including a 16-year-old boy, and another three were hurt in shootings during the day Sunday, police said. Between late Saturday and early Sunday, police said, another three men were killed and 15 were wounded, including a man who was shot dead while sitting at his kitchen table." <<link>> 
SHOT DEAD AT KITCHEN TABLE -- "Bullet through door kills Southwest Side man at his kitchen table," by Chicago Sun-Times: "A man was shot to death Saturday while he was sitting at his kitchen table in the Archer Heights neighborhood on the Southwest Side. Andres Rivera, 58, was eating at his kitchen table just after 8 p.m. in the 5200 block of South Kolin when shots fired from the street tore through the front door and struck him in the head ... Rivera, who lived in the home, was pronounced dead at the scene at 8:36 p.m." <<link>> 
POLICE-INVOLVED FATAL SHOOTING -- "Bank Robbery Suspect Fatally Shot By Chicago Police In Archer Heights," CBS: "A suspect was fatally shot by Chicago Police following a bank robbery Monday morning in the Southwest Side Archer Heights neighborhood. The officer-involved shooting happened in the 4900 block of South Karlov after a bank robbery, according to Chicago Police spokesman Anthony Guglielmi." <<link>> 
CITY 
JON STEWART CALLS TRUMP 'MAN-BABY' -- "Jon Stewart may no longer be hosting his show known for biting takedowns of political figures, but that didn't stop him Monday from going on an epic rant against Donald Trump. The former "Daily Show" host told David Axelrod at the University of Chicago Institute of Politics that he isn't even sure the presumptive Republican nominee is eligible for the presidency. 'I'm not a constitutional scholar, so I can't necessarily say, but are you eligible to run if you are a man-baby, or a baby-man?' Stewart said during a taping of Axelrod's podcast 'The Axe Files.' "He has the physical countenance of a man and a baby's temperament and hands." 
<<link>> 
HOW TAXES WORK IN THE 'BURBS -- "Should 'affluent' neighborhoods pay extra tax for schools?" by Crain's Greg Hinz: "Those who live in 'affluent' neighborhoods-especially those located near a good high school-would pay an extra $100 million in property taxes to help avoid school cuts in poorer areas under a plan being pitched by the Chicago Teachers Union. The additional property tax is tucked into a larger $500 million proposal released last week by the union to help schools gain more in local funds at a time when the possibility of additional state aid seems to be balled up in Springfield politics. The proposal for a sort of reverse tax increment financing district so far hasn't received
much notice. But CTU allies such as Ald. Carlos Ramirez-Rosa, 35th, vowed to push it hard at City Hall. And as it starts to be better known, it's already sparking pretty strong blowback from some of Ramirez-Rosa's colleagues." <<link>> 
DEEP DIVE INTO CHICAGO'S BLACK MIDDLE CLASS -- "In Kenwood, black picket fences," by The Chicago Reporter's Deborah L. Shelton: "When Bill Lowry learned that 15-year-old Hadiya Pendleton had been shot to death near his home, he was working in his corner office at a law firm in Chicago's financial district ... Her death, steps from the Lowry family's elegant two-story home - not far from the Obama's house - would have been unthinkable in Mayor Rahm Emanuel's North Side neighborhood of Ravenswood. But it is not in Kenwood, a predominantly African-American community on the city's South Side ... 
"The Kenwood community area is 68 percent African-American. One in three residents has an advanced degree, and one in six lives below the federal poverty line ... While some middle-class African-Americans like the Lowrys benefit from living in neighborhoods like Kenwood, with its tree-lined streets, striking architecture, short commute to downtown, less costly housing and a connection to the history and cultural legacy of the Great Migration, they also pay a price. Their homes have less value than those in comparable white neighborhoods. They live in close proximity to poverty. They sometimes go home to gunfire." <<link>> 
DECLINE BY DESIGN -- "Chicago on pace to have fewest drug arrests since Nixon era," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mick Dumke and Frank Main: "In 2015, total drug-related arrests dropped to the lowest level in three decades, a Chicago Sun-Times analysis of city crime data found. And the rate of drug busts plunged more sharply in the first four months of 2016. Chicago Police are on pace to make 13,000 narcotics arrests by year's end. That would be the smallest annual tally since 1973, two years after President Richard Nixon declared a national war on drugs." <<link>> 
OUSTED PRINCIPAL COULD HEAD PRINCIPAL GROUP -- "The politics at stake in the principals' association election," by The Reader's Ben Joravsky: "It's time for a brief primer on the heated election for the presidency of an organization that until recently you probably never heard of-the Chicago Principals and Administrators Association. As you may recall from my last treatise on this topic, the two candidates are Troy LaRaviere, the ousted principal of Blaine Elementary School, and Ken "Buzz" Hunter, the former principal of Prosser Career Academy. The mayor's school appointees reassigned LaRaviere-a high-profile critic of the mayor's school policies-for several unspecified reasons they may
someday get around to revealing." <<link>> 
GRIFFIN HQ SITE OF PICKETING, ARRESTS -- "Photos: 19 Arrested At Moral Monday Demonstration In The Loop," the Chicagoist: "At least 19 demonstrators were arrested Monday afternoon for shutting down the lobby of Citadel, LLC, a hedge fund management company run by Illinois richest man and top donor to Gov. Bruce Rauner, Ken Griffin. The activists used lockboxes made of PVC pipe wrapped around their arms to shut down the elevator banks leading to the hedge fund, according to organizers, while others blocked access to the lobby by wedging themselves inside the revolving doors as hundreds of supporters looked on. The demonstration was the first 'Moral Monday Illinois' protest to take place in
many months; the protests have a religious theme calling on the wealthy to pay more taxes. Fair Economy Illinois, a coalition of community groups that helped organize the demonstration, says they want the state to adopt a 'People and Planet First Budget' to turn Illinois into a 'promised land.'" <<link>> 
STATE 
PRESUME NOTHING ON TRUMP -- "Madigan warns Democrats not to 'rest' if Trump is GOP choice," by The Associated Press: "Illinois' top Democrat has warned party faithful not to get lackadaisical because the Republicans are poised to nominate Donald Trump for president. Michael Madigan of Chicago, the Illinois House speaker, closed a meeting with Democratic delegates Monday advising them not to 'rest on your laurels.' Many Democrats are tittering at the presumed nomination of Trump, the New York businessman known for questionable comments about immigrants and his cutting criticism of opponents. They believe top Democratic candidates Hillary Clinton or Bernie Sanders would easily defeat him and
boost down-ballot Democrats." <<link>> 
STUDENTS GRILL RAUNER -- "Lakes High School students quiz Rauner on budget, medical marijuana," by Lake County News-Sun's Emily K. Coleman: "Gov. Bruce Rauner pushed for more education spending as he visited two suburban high schools Monday ... senior Ally Rudolph ... asked Rauner about unpaid bills to state social-service providers, pointing to a lawsuit that was filed last week against Rauner ... 'All our priorities have not been getting paid for years and years and years, and we've got to change that system,' Rauner said ... Rudolph said she felt the answer wasn't much of an answer ... 'He definitely dodged my question.'" <<link>> 
STO LAT!-- "Rauner: Poland 1st stop on tour after state reforms accomplished," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mitch Dudek: "If Gov. Bruce Rauner achieves the anti-union, pro-business reforms he has made the hallmark of his administration, he plans to travel the world to promote the state - and the first country he'll visit will be Poland, he said Sunday ... 'The people of America have no greater friends in the world than the people of Poland,' Rauner said." <<link>> 
'NOWHERE IN AMERICA' ARE PROPERTY TAXES SO HIGH -- "From the Editor's Desk: Illinois property tax system unsustainable," by Northwest Herald: "If you own a home in Illinois, hold your breath when you check the mailbox: It's property tax bill time. This year, my household's property tax bill will increase by $500 ... so my annual tax bill increases this year to more than $7,500, pushing the amount my family will pay in property taxes up to $625 a month. Nowhere in America do people pay this much simply to live where they do. Illinois is now the state with the highest property taxes in the country." <<link>> 
CHA-CHING -- "Illinois collects another $1.6m from late-vehicle fines," by The Associated Press: "Illinois collected $1.6 million from late-vehicle registration fines in April to more than double its year-to-date haul from the same period last year as residents go without renewal reminders because there's no budget. Last month's fines bring the total this year to $6.5 million. Illinois collected nearly $3 million in fines during the same four-month span last year." <<link>> 
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR UNTESTED RAPE KITS -- "Bill seeks sexual assault investigation oversight," by The Associated Press: "A bill that's moving through the Illinois General Assembly is aimed at ensuring local police departments properly handle rape investigations. Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart worked on the legislation with Democratic state Sen. Bill Cunningham of Chicago after dozens of rape kits were found in the Chicago suburb of Robbins in 2013 that hadn't been sent to the Illinois State Police crime lab for DNA testing." <<link>> 
STATE SHOULD LEARN FROM STEM -- "Early education, key part of stem training, getting crushed by budget impasse," by Keith Krutz for Reboot Illinois: "In my shop, we put a premium on creativity and problem-solving. Our tooling, metal-stamping, and mechanical-assembly projects present challenges that require my employees to give their best effort - and I trust them to do so ... We have to handle ... issues quickly and creatively ... to get the job done right ... Illinois needs to take the same tack in approaching workforce development ... One such movement is our increasing shift toward greater demand for employees skilled in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM)." 
<<link>> 
DIMINISHED POWER A GOOD THING -- "Why no action on progressive income tax rates is a win," by Reboot Illinois' Madeleine Doubek: "Why in the world would anyone give Illinois lawmakers more power to set different tax rates for different people? Why give them the ability to raise those rates and create more of them any time they choose with nothing more than a simple majority of both chambers and a governor's signature? Yes, Illinois needs to forge a budget compromise. Yes, it needs to start testing other ways to get pension debt addressed. Yes, that is going to take tax increases, but no way should we give lawmakers the huge power to set varying rates by majority vote." 
<<link>> 
PIGGING OUT ON HOG FARMS -- "Illinois hog farm expansion notices already at half of 2015 total," by Belleville News-Democrat: "Hog producers in Illinois have already filed half as many expansion notices with state regulators as they did all of last year. According to the state Department of Agriculture's website, there were 61 intent-to-construct applications filed so far in 2016. There were 122 such applications for the entirety of 2015. Final regulatory say on new Illinois hog farms is with the state Department of Agriculture, which notes there are usually 100 to 120 applications for new and expanded hog operations each year." <<link>> 
AMERICANS REVEALED -- "Panama Papers include dozens of Americans tied to financial frauds," by The Washington Post's Michael Hudson, Jake Bernstein, Ryan Chittum, Will Fitzgibbon and Catherine Dunn: "Len Gotshalk ... had a history of legal issues by the time he went looking to buy an offshore company in 2010 ... Mossack Fonseca, a Panama-based law firm that specializes in selling offshore companies, initially told Gotshalk that it couldn't do business with him, because of 'negative information' that its researchers had found. Gotshalk persuaded the law firm to reconsider, noting in an email that he had 'held offshore accounts in the past in Europe and Bahamas and Belize' without problems.
Three months later - on May 21, 2010 - federal prosecutors in Philadelphia unsealed an indictment charging that Gotshalk was a key player in a scheme that used kickbacks and other tactics to inflate the prices of tech-company stocks." <<link>> 
ONE CAN SELL ONLY SO MANY STEAKS -- "Trump aides huddle with RNC to plot big-money strategy," by POLITICO's Kenneth P. Vogel, Eli Stokols and Alex Isenstadt: "Donald Trump's campaign is hashing out the details of an agreement with Republican Party leaders that could allow the presumptive GOP presidential nominee to raise six-figure checks for his presidential campaign, multiple sources with direct knowledge of the negotiations tell POLITICO. The fundraising agreement was among the subjects discussed at a Monday meeting at the Republican National Committee's Washington offices between top RNC officials, including chairman Reince Priebus, and senior Trump aides, including campaign manager
Corey Lewandowski, senior adviser Paul Manafort and political director Rick Wiley, according to the sources." <<link>> 
SINS OF FACEBOOK -- "Former Facebook Workers: We Routinely Suppressed Conservative News," by Gizmodo's Michael Nunez: "Facebook workers routinely suppressed news stories of interest to conservative readers from the social network's influential 'trending' news section, according to a former journalist who worked on the project. This individual says that workers prevented stories about the right-wing CPAC gathering, Mitt Romney, Rand Paul, and other conservative topics from appearing in the highly-influential section, even though they were organically trending among the site's users. 
Several former Facebook 'news curators,' as they were known internally, also told Gizmodo that they were instructed to artificially 'inject' selected stories into the trending news module, even if they weren't popular enough to warrant inclusion-or in some cases weren't trending at all. The former curators, all of whom worked as contractors, also said they were directed not to include news about Facebook itself in the trending module." <<link>> 
LOLLA LINEUP, HOW TO CHOOSE -- "Lollapalooza 2016 schedule released," by Chicago Tribune's Greg Kot: "July 28: Headliners J. Cole and Lana Del Rey go head-to-head, which sounds like a broad enough stylistic difference not to cause too many headaches. But rock fans will need to decide between the Arcs, a Black Keys side project, and rising U.K. band the 1975. Also not appreciating the overlap between Danny Brown and Yeasayer." <<link>> 
WHATTA WIN! "Todd Frazier grand slam in 12th bails out White Sox bullpen in 8-4 win," <<link>> 
EVENTS courtesy of IntelligentEvent 
TODAY: A Conversation with Will Burns, AirBnB - 1871 - Will Burns, former 4th Ward Alderman, serves as the Director, Midwest Policy and Senior Advisor at Airbnb. He'll join 1871's Howard Tullman and Tom Alexander for a discussion on the homesharing platform's rapid growth and economic impact on Chicago's neighborhoods, as well as how the proposed City Council ordinance could affect Chicago's hosts and visitors. 
On The Table 2016 - Join thousands of Chicagoland residents to talk about how we can help unite the place we call home. In today's world, this act of coming together has never been more important. On the Table 2016 will connect individuals and communities of diverse perspectives and backgrounds. Talking - and listening - to our neighbors is an important first step toward creating a more unified Chicagoland region. 
WHERE'S RAHM? No public events. 
WHERE'S RAUNER? In the morning, attends TECH 2016 Exhibit hosted by the Illinois Computing Educators in Springfield, then heads to a Illinois Fallen Firefighters Memorial Ceremony. He then attends a luncheon for the Chemical Industry Council of Illinois, then the Illinois Hunger Commission to End Hunger Annual Summit. 
FOR MORE political and policy news from POLITICO Illinois, visit: <<link>> 
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
<<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 
THE MEDIA ISSUE- POLITICO MAGAZINE ONLINE TODAY: As Washington prepares for the final White House Correspondents Dinner of the Obama Administration, POLITICO Magazine's MEDIA ISSUE takes a look at how the press has contributed to the rise of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump. Jack Shafer, Susan Mulcahy, Michael Grunwald, Michael Crowley and Campbell Brown are just some of the contributors to this must-read issue. Read here-<<link>> 
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
