04/26/2016 08:00 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Tuesday morning, Illinois. So ... how 'bout them Cubs? The ulcer-inducing final Blackhawks vs. Blues game showed us what happens with the Hawks dig themselves too far into a deficit. They can only defy the odds so many times. In the end, St. Louis finished strong, ending the Hawks' post season. 
MISERY IN MISSOURI: Sun-Times sports cover: <<link>> 
In state political news, it's looking like the GOP state convention in Peoria could see the biggest turnout in years, with thousands of Republicans eligible to attend next month. Guess who's among them? 
RICKETTS PLANS TO ATTEND ILLINOIS GOP CONVENTION -- "Illinois Republicans are preparing for an incredibly crowded and potentially contentious state convention next month, where 12 at-large delegates will be at issue. Donald Trump won Illinois decisively in last month's GOP primary, which means a total of 54 delegates, including the 12 at-large, are bound to vote for Trump on the first ballot in Cleveland. But forces who want anyone but Trump haven't gone away. Todd Ricketts, the man at the center of the national effort to stop Trump, will be among those attending the state's convention ... Republicans are sent to the state convention based on primary voter turnout, which among Illinois
Republican voters, was up almost 50 percent in the March primary when compared to 2012. 'We could have upwards of 3,000 people, by statute,' Aaron Degroot, Illinois GOP Party spokesman told Politico. Past conventions has seen attendance in the hundreds. "There's a lot of interest this year. It'll be a convention to remember.'" <<link>> 
TAKING AIM AT RAHM -- "Parents 'blindsided' by removal of beloved principal, blame Rahm," by Chicago Sun Times' Mitch Dudek: "Give us our principal back. And do it right now. It was the message conveyed Monday by about 50 parents who gathered at Blaine Elementary School, 1420 W. Grace St., in the Lake View neighborhood. Their principal, Troy LaRaviere, was removed from the school over spring break last week. LaRaviere has been an outspoken critic of CPS and Mayor Rahm Emanuel ... LaRaviere on Monday declined to comment via text, noting that he'd have more to say in the coming days. CPS spokeswoman Emily Bittner ... 'CPS has removed Troy LaRaviere because of alleged acts of misconduct,
including violations of a previous Warning Resolution passed by the Board of Education ... Blaine's Local School Council said the decision to remove LaRaviere was made without their input." <<link>> 
Tribune: &quot;Blaine Elementary School's local school council officially condemned Troy LaRaviere's reassignment Monday, saying in a statement that its members were 'outraged that CPS has removed our award-winning principal without due process.' Blaine parents, community members and high-ranking CPS officials filled the school auditorium Monday for what was frequently a heated hearing on the principal's dismissal. CPS Chief Education Officer Janice Jackson - in remarks interrupted by jeers, comments, chants and applause - said the legal nature of the situation kept her from offering specifics about the principal's dismissal. She said LaRaviere had been given detailed dismissal charges,
which he was free to share publicly. Jackson, however, did cite a dozen unspecified charges as reasons for LaRaviere's removal, including alleged 'dereliction of duty, ethics violations of state and CPS policy and insubordination.'" <<link>> 
NOT BUYING IT -- "Activist slams city's attempt at police department 'transparency' by Fox 32 News: "One community activist isn't buying Mayor Rahm Emanuel's attempt to make the city and Chicago Police Department more transparent. CPD has been under the microscope since the scathing Police Accountability Task Force report which stated the force had 'no regard for the sanctity of life when it comes to people of color.' William Calloway, who was one of those behind-the-scenes of the Laquan McDonald video release, joins Good Day Chicago to debunk the city's latest boast of transparency, Friday's release of a video showing a woman tased by officers." 
<<link>> 
WHAT'S MORE AMERICAN THAN TEXTING? -- Filing a lawsuit about texting. "Cook County man sues Trump campaign over text messages," by Chicago Sun Times' Jon Seidel: "The text message offered a way to help 'Make America Great Again!' But a Cook County man contends it, and others like it, threaten to send his cell phone bill soaring instead. So now Joshua Thorne is pursuing a federal class-action lawsuit in Chicago against Donald J. Trump for President Inc. Thorne filed his lawsuit Monday complaining about a text message he received from Trump's campaign March 4 - in the days leading up to Illinois' primary election. The text message read: 'Reply YES to subscribe to Donald J. Trump for
President. Your subscription will help Make America Great Again! Msg & data rates may apply.' ... The text violated the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, Thorne alleges." <<link>> 
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Providing 90 percent of Illinois' carbon-free electricity, nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals. Illinois' nuclear energy fleet supports approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contributes nearly $9 billion to the state's economy. Learn more at NuclearMatters.com. ** 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
EDUCATORS FEAR SHUTTING THEIR DOORS -- "Illinois Impasse Sparks Fears Of The Unthinkable: No School," by AP's Sara Burnett: "But lately a greater worry is weighing on Superintendent Mike Gauch: that he'll have to close the doors. He's among scores of school officials who face this prospect as Illinois lawmakers' epic fight over a state budget threatens to spill into summer and jeopardize the education of several hundred thousand students. Unthinkable even a few months ago, the possibility of the impasse extending to a second year and shutting down school systems has grown stronger in recent weeks. If it happens, it would be the most traumatic consequence of a fight between the state's
Republican governor, Bruce Rauner, and Democrats who run the Legislature, and mark a new low for political dysfunction in the nation's fifth-largest state. 'It scares me to death,' says Gauch, who estimates that without state funds his district of about 2,100 students could remain open until November or December, at best. Other superintendents say their schools won't make it that long." <<link>> 
KKK TERROR DECLARATION SOUGHT -- "Jones: Classify KKK as Terrorist Group," by The Illinois Observer: "Chicago Democratic State Senator Emil Jones, III wants the U.S. the Congress to designate the Ku Klux Klan as a terrorist organization. Jones filed a resolution, SR 1782, in the Illinois Senate on Friday that urges Congress to 'pursue dismantling this domestic terrorist hate group with the same fervor used to protect the United States from other manifestations of terrorism.' Jones' measure also compares the KKK to ISIS and Nigerian terrorist group BOKO Harem. 'The Ku Klux Klan's tactics mirror those of modern-day terrorist groups such as ISIS, BOKO Haram, and others whose sole purpose is to
intimidate, disenfranchise, silence and kill particular groups of people...' GOP presidential frontrunner Donald Trump created a firestorm in late February when he refused to immediately repudiate the endorsement the ex-KKK grand wizard David Duke. In an interview with CNN Trump dodged any criticism of the KKK or Duke." <<link>> 
SIGNED, SEALED, 25% DELIVERED -- "Gov. Bruce Rauner signs $600M university funding package, includes MAP grants," by Rockford Register Star's Kevin Haas: "Gov. Bruce Rauner signed legislation authorizing $600 million in emergency funding to keep major Illinois universities operating until fall. It also provides money for Rock Valley College, although it's less than a quarter of what the state owes. The Republican signed the bill today after a debate last week in the General Assembly over the temporary spending plan. The package includes $170 million for the Monetary Award Program, a needs-based grant that colleges doled out this past school year without state reimbursement." 
<<link>> 
MADIGAN CHIDES GOP ON HIGHER ED -- "Madigan to Democrats on Higher Ed Funding: 'I Told You So,'" by Illinois Observer: "House Speaker Michael Madigan on Monday warned his legislative colleagues that efforts to fund higher education beyond the minor funding patching approved last week will likely fail. In a memo to House Democratic lawmakers, Madigan pointed to comments made to the press by his House GOP counterpart that signal that no further funding is likely for Illinois higher education for fiscal year 2016." Read the memo: <<link>> 
GANNETT GOES FOR TRIB, COULD AFFECT SUN-TIMES, TOO -- "Gannett deal for Tribune could affect USA Today ties with Sun-Times," by Robert Feder: "Monday's stop-the-presses news that Gannett Co. wants to buy Tribune Publishing isn't the first foray of the Virginia-based media giant into the Chicago newspaper market. In addition to distributing its flagship USA Today on newsstands here, Gannett has a comprehensive editorial partnership agreement with the Sun-Times. Since March 2015 Gannett has provided at least 10 pages of USA Today-branded editorial content each day in the Sun-Times. The arrangement substantially increased the paper's coverage of national and international news, business and
sports. The Gannett deal with Sun-Times parent company Wrapports LLC was negotiated under Michael Ferro, then chairman of Wrapports, and Timothy Knight, former CEO of Wrapports. Since last February, Ferro has been chairman of Tribune Publishing." <<link>> 
AN OFFER THEY CAN'T REFUSE? -- "Gannett's $815 million offer: 'Tribune should take it,'" by Crain's Lynne Marek: "A quick sale of Tribune Publishing doesn't seem what Chairman Michael Ferro had in mind, but Gannett's $815 million offer may be tough to refuse. With just 16 percent of the company's outstanding shares, Ferro and the other Chicago investors behind his Merrick Media must give serious consideration to a bid that puts a 63 percent premium on the company's closing stock price at the end of last week. Gannett's offer, first made April 12, would pay $12.25 cash per share and absorb Tribune Publishing's $390 million in debt. Gannett, anchored by USA Today, is the biggest newspaper
company in the country, both by circulation and revenue, in an industry that is increasingly dominated by fewer, large players." <<link>> 
LEWIS' ISIS REMARKS: OVER. THE. TOP. -- "Holan criticizes CTU president's ISIS remarks," by Dupage Policy Journal's Daniel Daw: "Heidi Holan, Republican Candidate for State Representative in District 46, criticized claims made by leadership of the Chicago Teachers Union (CTU) comparing Gov. Bruce Rauner to ISIS on Friday ... Karen Lewis, president of CTU, stated that Rauner's activities were comparable to the actions of an ISIS recruit. Lewis stated that Rauner's actions could be considered as acts of terror against the working class and those in poverty. 'I don't believe Karen Lewis' views represent the hard-working teachers across Illinois nor do they set a good example for our children,'
Holan said. 'To trivialize national security in such a manner minimizes the seriousness of terrorist threats, is irrelevant to the situation and plays like a desperate bid for attention.'" <<link>> 
AFSCME, RAUNER MAKE CASE IN COURT -- "Rauner, AFSCME go to labor board over new contract," by State Journal-Register's Doug Finke: "The Illinois Labor Relations Board on Monday began the process of deciding whether contract talks between the state and its largest employee union have reached an impasse. An administrative law judge heard ... the state lay out the case for why the board should declare the talks at an impasse ... while ... the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees Council 31 argued that the talks should continue. A ruling in the state's favor would open the door for the administration of Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner to impose its final contract terms on
the union. The union would then have to decide whether to accept or strike, something that AFSCME has never done at the state level. A ruling in favor of the union would require negotiations to resume. A ruling in not expected for weeks." 
SIU PROBING RACIST YOUTUBE POST -- "SIUC chancellor condemns racist video," by The Associated Press: "The leader of Southern Illinois University in Carbondale is threatening legal action and condemning an anonymous YouTube video that calls for the lynching and beating of black students. The video is below. Update: The video has been removed by YouTube; it now displays with a message reading 'This video has been removed for violating YouTube's policy on hate speech.' Interim Chancellor Brad Colwell also asked students in an email to not distribute the YouTube video, in which a masked speaker attributes the message to the campus' Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. The fraternity has denied
involvement." <<link>> 
NFL DRAFT AT $3.2M -- "Emanuel still holding out hope for NFL Draft three-peat," by Chicago Sun-Times' Fran Spielman: "NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has said it's 'very likely' the NFL draft will be held elsewhere in 2017 after two straight years in Chicago, but Mayor Rahm Emanuel isn't taking 'no' for an answer. Three days before the NFL's greatest show on earth - outside the Super Bowl - returns to Chicago, Emanuel held out hope of persuading Goodell to return for a third-straight year. Free rent in Grant Park for the 2015 NFL draft in Chicago cost the Chicago Park District nearly $1 million last spring. The value of this year's tab will rise to $3.2 million - with the NFL paying just
over $103,0000 - for an expanded Draft Town footprint in Grant Park, according to the Chicago Park District." <<link>> 
'INDIVIDUAL A' SEEKS COMPENSATION -- "Alleged Hastert victim files $1.8 million lawsuit," by POLITICO's Josh Gerstein: "A former student of former House Speaker Dennis Hastert filed a lawsuit Monday demanding that the ex-speaker pay more than $1.8 million to fulfill an agreement he allegedly made to pay $3.5 million to compensate for sexual abuse committed against the man three decades ago. The lawsuit refers to the man suing Hastert simply as 'James Doe,' but the events outlined in the suit make clear he is the 'Individual A' referred to in a federal indictment of Hastert last year for illegally structuring bank withdrawals and lying to the FBI ... In the new lawsuit, the alleged victim
says he was 14 years old when Hastert sexually abused him at a motel on a wrestling trip he organized as a coach, leading to a lifetime of problems. 'For many years to follow, Plaintiff suffered severe panic attacks which lead [sic] to periods of unemployment, career changes, bouts of depression, hospitalization, and long-term psychiatric treatment,' the suit says." <<link>> 
