By Isaac Arnsdorf | 04/27/2016 02:00 PM EDT
With help from Cogan Schneier and Brianna Gurciullo 
FARA UPDATE:
- Former Sen. Al D'Amato's (R-N.Y.) Park Strategies inked a $15,000-a-month consulting deal with Polish defense conglomerate Polska Grupa Zbrojeniowa. D'Amato's firm will promote Polish military initiatives, including an increased financial commitment to NATO, reach out to journalists, Congress, think tanks and U.S. arms companies, and assist with July's NATO summit in Warsaw.
- Amsterdam & Partners added Jim Arnold of Austin, Texas, to the Turkey account, for public relations strategic guidance and direct media outreach related to the case against Pennsylvania-based religious leader Fethullah Gulen. Arnold, who worked for the NRCC, NRSC and Rick Perry in the 1990s, will make $20,000 a month.
- Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban paid Connie Mack's Liberty International Group $239,488.93 between October and February.
- APCO Worldwide is providing media relations and strategic communications to Ukraine for $20,000 this month.
- The Korean Embassy extended Rokk Solutions through September at $20,000 a month. The Ron Bonjean-Rodell Mollineau-Brian J. Walsh collaboration will provide political and media analysis for the 2016 elections; arrange events for members, journalists and other opinion leaders; and help with press releases, op-eds and speeches. 
- Holland & Knight has been conferring with congressional staff on behalf of Gibraltar about tax haven legislation.
SPACE ODDITY: As the House Armed Services Committee marks up the National Defense Authorization Act, more than 100 representatives from the 50 supplier companies in the United Launch Alliance (whose members include Lockheed Martin and Boeing) will hold meetings on Capitol Hill to discuss American access to space and the industry's economic impact. The International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers is supporting them in the effort to allow buying Russian-made RD-180 rockets. But Grover Norquist of Americans for Tax Reform wrote Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) opposing the proposal as a gift to Vladimir Putin. Elon Musk's SpaceX is also lobbying against the proposal to lift the
ban.
ICYMI: American Continental Group's David Urban, the former chief of staff to the late Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), is advising and volunteering for the Donald Trump campaign and was in Pennsylvania today. "Trump is going to be the nominee," Urban told PI. "You don't have to have unanimity to have unity." Urban's clients at ACG include blue chips like Comcast, Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Raytheon.
HAPPY WEDNESDAY! Please send tips to user@domain.com.
ONLY IN D.C. ... or, to be precise, in a suburban congressional race (MD-08), would you see a lobbyist and his family in a candidate's mailer. Shout out to David Thomas of Mehlman Castagnetti Rosen & Thomas for appearing in that Kathleen Matthews postcard. Thomas contributed $2,119.79 to the campaign. Matthews lost the primary Tuesday to state Sen. Jamie Raskin.
LIFTOFF: PR, marketing and advocacy firm The Moak Group hired Michael Wascom, previously managing director of government and international affairs at American Airlines, as SVP, and Ellen Huber, previously digital editor at the US-China Business Council, as a marketing & communications associate. The company, which Lee Moak and Michael Robbins co-founded in early 2015, also recently hired Boyd Bailey from Qatar Airways and Susan Fielders from the Air Line Pilots Association International. 
- The Bockorny Group promoted Marty DePoy, who has been with the firm since 2005, to senior vice president.
FINK TO CLF: Mason Fink, former senior adviser to Mitt Romney, will join the Congressional Leadership Fund, a Republican super PAC aiming to protect and expand the House's Republican majority, POLITICO's Alex Isenstadt reports. House Speaker Paul Ryan personally reached out to Fink about serving on the group's board - the two became friends when Ryan ran as Romney's vice presidential nominee in 2012. Fink worked as Romney's finance director in both 2008 and 2012, and oversaw fundraising for the Right to Rise super PAC that backed former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush's failed presidential bid. Ryan has recruited other Romney alumni for House Republican fundraising, including former aide Spencer
Zwick. <<link>>
ON THE HILL: The U.S. Global Leadership Coalition brought 57 leaders from 35 organizations to meet with House and Senate appropriators on the International Affairs Budget. Participants include leaders from AIPAC, BD, Catholic Relief Services, Chemonics International, Friends of the Global Fight, Mercy Corps, and three retired Navy and Air Force flag officers.
CHEMISTRY: Sen. Shelly Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) and Reps. Brian Babin (R-Texas) and Bill Pascrell (D-N.J.) attended a luncheon today to introduce the Chemical Industry Labor-Management Committee, a partnership between the chemical industry and organized construction labor, including the American Chemistry Council and North America's Building Trades Unions. Other founding members are Albemarle Corporation, Calgon Carbon Corporation, Solvay Americas, the Laborers' International Union of North America, the International Association of Sheet Metal, Air, Rail and Transportation Workers, and the United Association - Union of Plumbers, Fitters, Welders, & Service Techs.
- Also today, Reps. John Moolenaar (R-Mich.) and Daniel Lipinski (D-Ill.) formed the Congressional Chemistry Caucus, cheered on by Thomas Connelly Jr. of the American Chemical Society, Cal M. Dooley of the American Chemistry Council and Eric Byer of the National Association of Chemical Distributors.
TARIFF TURMOIL: The Hill's Vicki Needham reports the National Association of Manufacturers and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce both issued key vote alerts for a Miscellaneous Tariff Bill the House considers today, signaling to lawmakers the groups will be paying attention to how they vote on the bill. The measure would streamline the tariff relief application process, and business groups including NAM and the Chamber have been increasing their lobbying efforts on the issue. Conservative groups like The Club for Growth and Heritage Action for America have criticized the bill, saying Congress should do away with the specific tariff relief waivers and focus on eliminating all tariffs. Still, the
measure has garnered support from government accountability groups, including the National Taxpayers Union, Taxpayers for Common Sense and the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste. <<link>>
PARTLY CLOUDY: Pro Energy's Esther Whieldon and Andrew Restuccia report there's a possible rift in the solar industry's main lobbying group, the Solar Energy Industries Association. Following a victory last December when Congress extended a tax credit providing breaks for the solar industry, rooftop solar companies like SolarCity support pressing for policies favorable to the distributed generation model, while others, like First Solar, want to focus on supporting large, utility-supplying power plants. Since SEIA President Rhone Resch is stepping down, his successor will have to soothe the tensions. <<link>>
SPRING FLING: Missy Edwards of Missy Edwards Strategies hosted a Spring Happy Hour yesterday for female colleagues on the rooftop of Fiola to celebrate spring patio season. Spotted: Katherine Lugar of AHLA, Anne Brady Perron of Crossroads Strategies, Mary Pat Lawrence of Allstate, Gloria Dittus of Story Partners, Sue Andres of Union Pacific, Elizabeth Burks of Steptoe Johnson, Ryan Triplette of Franklin Square, Heather Podesta & Amy Swonger of Heather Podesta + Partners, Lee Dunn of Google, Katie Oppenheim of Merck, Jennifer Lowe of Boeing and Connie Tipton of International Dairy Foods Association. 
- On Monday, the Washington Area Women's Foundation hosted author and Time magazine reporter Jay Newton-Small for a discussion of her book "Broad Influence: How Women are Changing the Way America Works" at the Capitol Hill office of Linchpin Strategies. Attendees included Jennifer Lockwood-Shabat of the Washington Area Women's Foundation, Michelle Smith, chief of staff to Federal Reserve chair Janet Yellen, Kirra Jarratt with the D.C. Bar Foundation, Beth Johnson of RP3 agency, Karen Wawrzaszek of Rockefeller & Co., Inc., Andrea Dykes of Howard Insurance, and Kathleen Havey and Katherine Kimmel with Linchpin Strategies. 
- Aretha Franklin, Herbie Hancock and Sting will perform at the White House on Saturday for International Jazz Day. 
White House Correspondents' Association Weekend Event - Playbook Lunch with Billy Eichner and Funny or Die's Mike Farah and David Litt. Join POLITICO's Chief White House Correspondent Mike Allen as he takes Playbook live for a conversation with Funny or Die D.C.'s head writer/producer and President Obama's former speechwriter David Litt, Host of "Billy on the Street" and from Hulu's "Difficult People," Billy Eichner and President of Production of Funny or Die, Mike Farah. Friday, April 29 - Doors at 11:30 a.m - The Newseum. RSVP: <<link>> 
NEW PAC REGISTRATIONS:
None
NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:
Arnold & Porter LLP: Hyundai Steel Company
Chambers, Conlon & Hartwell, LLC: Filipinnin Law Firm LLP (on behalf of The City of Lake Forest, IL)
Cooley LLP: Capella Education Company
Crossroads Strategies, LLC: Caron Treatment Centers
Davidoff Hutcher & Citron, LLP: Ponce Health Sciences University
Peyser Associates LLC: AECOM
Rebecca Greenberg: The Madison Square Garden Co.
The Glover Park Group LLC: Related EB-5 Regional Center Holdings, LLC (on behalf of Manhattan Tower)
NEW LOBBYING TERMINATIONS:
McGlotten & Jarvis: Seafarers International Union
Ms. Judith Lemons: Cargill Salt
TERMINATIONS - NO ACTIVITY:
Chambers, Conlon & Hartwell, LLC: GRIDSMART Technologies
NGVAmerica: NGVAmerica
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
