X-Sender: esper@mail.wsl.ch
Date: Mon, 13 Oct 2003 15:21:03 +0200
To: Keith Briffa <k.briffa@uea.ac.uk>
From: Jan Esper <esper@wsl.ch>
Subject: minor explosion
Cc: Wilson Rob <rjwilson_dendro@blueyonder.co.uk>
Hi Keith
thank you for the message and the comments to the Siberia draft. We are intending to
finalize a draft when Rob is coming over and we go on a sampling trip to the Bavarian
Forest and E-Germany. We will then also discuss of data-overlap issue again and might
include some extra figure with our record re-calculated (without Tornetraesk and Polar
Ural).
However, I (Jan) an not sure that we should have another figure with only the Mann and
the (reduced) Esper series. Second, it seems that Mann used the density records from
these two sites only (not ring width). Lets see.
We would really like to send you the final draft, and ask you to become the fourth
author? We ask this not only because of the "minor explosion" that might happen, but
also because some of the arguments in the draft were made earlier by you anyway. What do
you think?
Take care
Jan and Dave
CC
R Wilson
Jan
with respect to the overlap problem we could agree to differ for now -I think the
problem is much more in the earlier period anyway but I suggest you go ahead and submit
it anyway. There are some minor wording points but nothing that affects the meaning. You
know that in my opinion the recent similarity in the records is driven by instrumental
data inclusion (or calibration against instrumental data) and that Mann's earlier data
are strongly biased towards summer and northern land signals. I think you will start a
minor explosion - but that is what science needs .
I looked at your tree-line data and thought them very interesting. In my opinion the way
you directed the interpretation was what drew your criticisms . For a climate journal
you should have been pointing out the complicated regional responses (to the temperature
record) rather than trying to state a simple overall response. The data are clearly
important and you should have no trouble publishing them if you rethink the approach to
the description (no work needed). I think Boreas or Arctic and Alpine Res. are better
targets though. I enjoyed  the discussions also and it is frustrating not to be able to
get up to speed with your other projects. I will get back to you when I have looked more
at the idea of the big review paper.
the very best to you and all
Keith
