If you are having trouble viewing this email, please view the web version
CLICK HERE TO REVIEW OUR SPONSORSHIP RATE CARD
Cyber Intelligence Europe 2015 Overview
Don't miss out on our amazing opportunity to attend our 3rd annual Cyber Intelligence Europe conference & exhibition in Bucharest, Romania on the 28th - 30th September 2015.
The Cyber Intelligence Asia event is Officially Supported by The Security Studies and Analysis Centre (CASS).
Cyber Intelligence Europe 2015 will analyse the different types of cybercrimes being faced to government agencies across Europe. Many public and private sector organisations are being targeted with the criminals exposing sensitive information to the public. Take part in our 3rd annual event to discuss ways of how to combat cybercrimes.
Our third instalment of our Cyber Intelligence Europe conference & exhibition will be taking place in Romania where the government is implementing strategies to improve their cyberspace from cybercrimes and attacks. NATO has recently named Romania as the main hub of operations in South Eastern Europe to combat cybercrimes in the region.
One aspect which will be discussed during the three day event will be the importance of sharing information between regional governments and private sector organisations to develop an understanding of how to combat the cyber criminals from breaching critical infrastructure.
Cyber Intelligence Europe 2015 will bring together leading cyber security officials from Europe’s leading government agencies, military and law enforcement agencies who will provide in-depth and knowledgeable presentations discussing current strategies being used by them to protect their computer systems as well as sharing information through the use of case study presentations.
How to Register for our international Cyber Intelligence Europe 2015 event and Benefit from our Early Bird Offer:
Book online at www.intelligence-sec.com
Book by completing this Delegate Booking Form
Book by calling +44 (0)1582 346 706
We hope that you can make our annual Cyber Intelligence Europe conference & exhibition on the 28-30 September 2015.
We look forward to welcoming you to Bucharest!
Find out more about this event on our website
Intelligence-Sec is a fully integrated Conference and Exhibitions company creating targeted well thought out three/four day events to keep you fully up to date with all the topical subjects in the security industry. Our employees are fully up to speed, and passionate about security and aim to provide you with the best industry events across the globe. with full experience of operating in global markets we ensure that our clients are 100% satisfied with our services. We aim to work to your requirements and are fully flexible so that you gain the best possible return on investment at our events.
Who's Speaking?
Lieutnenant General Alexandru Grumaz
Brigadier General Helmut Habermayer
Nikolay Koval
Hans Oude Alink
Arman Grigoryan
Full Speaker List here...
t.
+44 (0)1582 346 706
e.
info@intelligence-sec.com
w.
www.intelligence-sec.com
fb.
/intelligence-sec
tw.
@intel_sec
Click here to unsubscribe from our mailing list
