ASSIGNMENT 1:
TeenScreen's director got a letter printed in the
Westchester County (NY) Journal-News.
She is using a letter to the editor as free
advertising and to forward lies.
Are we going to let her get away with it? I should say
not.
Write a scathing letter and send it to
user@domain.com.
If you need hatting on what to write, click on
www.psychsearch.net/teenscreen.html
And report compliance by email.
Here is Leslie MacGuire's letter:
June 22, 2006 Thursday
SECTION: OPINION; Pg. 8B
Suicide prevention event appreciated
I would like to commend the Mental Health Association
of Westchester for hosting the Suicide Prevention
Conference: Recognizing Warning Signs - Saving Lives
on June 16. The conference created a forum for
community members to share information and resources
concerning mental illness and suicide prevention, two
important topics that are too often overlooked.
I was pleased to participate in this important event
alongside New York's commissioner of mental health,
many of the country's foremost suicide experts, and
hundreds of local professionals committed to the cause
of suicide prevention. I applaud the Mental Health
Association and all of the conference attendees for
taking the initiative to be leaders in combating the
terrible tragedy of suicide.
Leslie McGuire
New York City
The writer is director, Columbia University TeenScreen
Program.
ASSIGNMENT 2:
Note: This article is identical to the multiple
assignment I sent last week. If you did that
assignment, you can send the same letter if you want.
An article on screening just published in the Ft.
Wayne (Indiana) Journal-Gazetter has some true data
and some false data. Your assignment is to write your
letter to either strongly agree with a piece of true
data or strongly disagree with a piece of false data.
Don't try to make your letter cover everything; just
pick one point and make your viewpoint very clear and
real to the person who will read the letter.
If you need hatting on what to write, click on
www.psychsearch.net/teenscreen.html. Also, here are
some important points:
-Child suicide rate declining since early 1990's; 
There is no epidemic 
-This whole screening thing is a hoax perpetrated by
the psycho-pharmaceutical industrial complex.
-Many authorities including numerous psychiatric
authorities have conducted numerous studies concluding
the decline in child suicide over the past 10 
years is associated with effective gun control.
-There is also data that suicide reduction is due to
volunteer (non-psych manned) suicide hotlines.
-The drugs CAUSE suicides.  FDA Warning.  Florida
suicide study - 39% of suicide cases were taking psych
drugs.  TeenScreen say only 1 in 3 or 4 at risk kids
are found and treated.  Then why isn't the suicide
rate 
porportionate
-It's a false datum that the treatment is up to the
doctor - 90% of them put the kid on drugs!
-NO studies show effectiveness of ANY drug in treating
children.  Why is the UK banning treatment of kids
with Prozac unless talk therapy has been done first?
The link and text are below.
Send your letter to user@domain.com and report
compliance by email.
Thank you!
Doyle
<<link>>
hannel=journalgazette_living
U.S. debates suicide-risk screenings for teenagers
By Shankar Vedantam
Washington Post
A growing number of U.S. schools are screening
teenagers for suicidal tendencies or signs of mental
illness, triggering a debate between those who seek to
reduce the toll of youthful suicides and others who
say the tests are unreliable and intrude on family
privacy.
The trend is being aggressively promoted by those who
say screening can reduce the tragedy of the more than
1,700 suicides committed by children and adolescents
each year in the United States. Many of the most
passionate supporters have lost children to suicide 
among them Sen. Gordon Smith, R-Ore., whose son
Garrett died in 2003.
One screening program, TeenScreen, developed by
Columbia University, has been administered to more
than 150,000 children in 42 states and Washington,
D.C. The state of New York plans to start screening
400,000 children a year, and the federal government is
directing tens of millions of dollars to expand
screening nationwide.
Use of the psychological evaluations is growing even
though there is little hard evidence that they prevent
suicides. A panel of government experts concluded two
years ago that the evidence to justify suicide
screening was weak and that such programs, although
well intentioned, had potential adverse consequences.
The growing use of screening has coincided with a
rapid increase in the number of youngsters being
prescribed powerful anti-psychotic medications such as
Risperdal and Zyprexa that have not been specifically
approved for use by children. There was a fivefold
increase in the use of these drugs in children between
1993 and 2002, according to one analysis published
this month in the Archives of General Psychiatry, and
a 73 percent increase in such prescriptions between
2001 and 2005, according to Medco, a firm that manages
pharmacy benefits.
Proponents of screening say that it is no different
than having health checkups or visiting a dentist and
that the potential benefits are incalculable. After
Smiths son killed himself, the Republican bucked the
objections of several conservative groups to push into
a law an $82 million effort to expand programs such as
TeenScreen.
Without any doubt, had TeenScreen been available to
us as Garretts parents, I am convinced we would have
been empowered to save his life, Smith said. Logic
tells me the more you know, the more you are able to
help.
Garrett Smith died one day shy of his 22nd birthday.
He had seen a psychiatrist shortly before he committed
suicide and was given a prescription for an
antidepressant. Sen. Smith said the family did not
know whether Garrett took the medication. Later, Smith
said, several experts concluded that Garrett probably
had bipolar disorder, also known as manic-depression.
Antidepressants are not recommended for this
condition, and Smith said his son had probably
concealed his symptoms during his single visit with
the psychiatrist. Still, he said, if the family had
known that Garrett had bipolar disorder, they could
have acted years earlier.
The controversy over screening has become emotional.
Opponents say such programs have turned into fronts
for the pharmaceutical industry to boost sales.
Advocates, meanwhile, say those against screening are
often driven by anti-psychiatry ideologies such as
Scientology.
It is industrial psychology at its worst, said
Michael D. Ostrolenk, a family therapist with the
Eagle Forum, a conservative group founded by
commentator Phyllis Schlafly. We think it is
inappropriate to turn state schools into laboratories
for psychiatry. He added that the group is also
concerned that screening violates family privacy.
But screening has wide support among both Republicans
and Democrats. In 2004, President Bush signed into law
the Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act to boost funding
for suicide screening, and the Presidents New Freedom
Commission on Mental Health has been broadly
supportive.
The debate over screening also turns on the scientific
paradoxes of suicide. It is rare enough that it is
difficult to study by conventional scientific trials,
but common enough to claim the lives of more than
30,000 Americans each year  far more than those who
die by homicide. There were 1,737 suicides by children
and adolescents in 2003, the last year for which
national statistics are available.
Among those younger than 20, the suicide rate is 2.14
per 100,000, a fraction of the 14.6 per 100,000 rate
for those older than 50. But national surveys suggest
that about 1 in 12 high school students tries to harm
himself or herself each year with an eye to committing
suicide.
Because suicide victims often turn out to have had
mental disorders such as depression and bipolar
disorder, David Shaffer of Columbia University, who
developed the TeenScreen questionnaire, and other
specialists say identifying and treating youngsters
with such disorders may reduce the number of suicides.
If the only product of screening was to predict who
is going to commit suicide, you could argue about its
utility, he said. But the risk factors for suicide
are other treatable psychiatric disorders.
