By Isaac Arnsdorf | 04/26/2016 02:00 PM EDT
With help from Cogan Schneier, Brianna Gurciullo and Daniel Lippman
CJS APPROPS:
- Vivieu, which makes police body cameras alongside market leader Taser, is joining the lobbying fight over the technology that police departments are rapidly embracing, despite questions about privacy and effectiveness. Vivieu hired a lobbying firm for the first time, retaining McAllister & Quinn in March, and paid them $8,750 by the end of the month to work on federal policy and funding. Tim Bergen (former field organizer for Ed Markey for Senate) and Frank Cristinzio (former senior adviser to Sen. Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.)) are on the case. Bromelkamp Government Relations started lobbying for Taser last August.
- John Ariale, the former chief of staff to Reps. Ander Crenshaw and Bill McCollum, is lobbying for ShotSpotter on Commerce, Justice, Science and Homeland Security appropriations. Becker & Poliakoff and Squire Patton Boggs also represent the gunshot detection technology maker.
- The Campaign for Youth Justice is also looking for funding from Commerce, Justice and Science appropriations, retaining three from Washington Partners: managing director Ellen Fern (former employee of former Sen. Claiborne Pell (D-R.I.), then-Rep. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and former Rep. Claudine Schneider (R-R.I.)), Kuna Tavalin (former employee of former Sen. Jim Jeffords (I-Vt.) and Sen. Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio)) and Russell Armstrong (former employee of Sen. Chris Murphy (D-Conn.)).
DOWNLINE: American Continental Group's Michael Barbera, the former chief of staff for former Rep. Curt Weldon (R-Pa.), is representing the Direct Selling Association on issues related to the Federal Trade Commission. The DSA represents controversial multi-level marketing companies such as Herbalife.
TRACK SWITCH: Sante Esposito split off from Federal Advocates to start his own firm, Key Advocates, this month. The former chief counsel to the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee brought along clients including the Association of American Railroads, the Clean Water Construction Coalition and Moffatt & Nichol.
HAPPY ACELA PRIMARY! Until Arne returns, pitches and tips still go to user@domain.com. The AAFA's Steve Lamar had these haiku to contribute to yesterday's glitch:
I'm glad to hear that
You are still the influence
behind Influence.
Though swapping jobs with
Former cabinet members
Could be intriguing.
FIRST IN PI: The White House appointed Rebecca Gale to be press secretary to the Economics and Statistics Administration at the Department of Commerce, starting next week. Gale wrote the workplace advice column for CQ Roll Call and used to work for Sen. Jay Rockefeller (D-W.Va.).
BEEP BEEP: Ford, Google, Lyft, Uber and Volvo established the Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets to lobby on driverless cars, led by Venable's David Strickland, who was administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration from 2010 to 2014. They'll start with civic organizations, municipalities and businesses.
White House Correspondents' Association Weekend Event - Playbook Lunch with Billy Eichner and Mike Farah. Join POLITICO's Chief White House Correspondent Mike Allen as he takes Playbook live for a conversation with host of "Billy on the Street" and from Hulu's "Difficult People," Billy Eichner and President of Production of Funny or Die, Mike Farah. Friday, April 29 - Doors at 11:30 a.m - The Newseum. RSVP: <<link>> 
BREAKFAST CLUB: Tony Podesta and colleagues David Adams, Paul Brathwaite and Dana Thompson are hosting a breakfast for House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer on Friday.
ICYMI: Gen. David Petraeus joined the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition's advisory group of more than 160 retired three and four-star military leaders calling on policymakers to increase foreign aid.
A FUNNY THING HAPPENED ON THE WAY TO THE FORUM: Mike Henry, the chief of staff for Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), spoke yesterday to the Government Relations Leadership Forum. Harriett Melvin of Thorn Run Partners presided, and Penny Lee of Venn Strategies introduced Henry. Forum members attending included Jack Howard of the Chamber, Jeff Shoaf with AGC, Missy Edwards of Missy Edwards Strategies, Kris Jones of Fox, Jane Adam with Johnson & Johnson, Marlene Colucci of The Business Council , Amy Oberhelman with Target and Ed Pagano from Akin Gump. The next forum meeting is May 23 and with Amy Walters from the Cook Political Report. 
SPRING ROUNDTABLE: Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck hosted a panel this morning with Senate Republican Policy Chair John Barrasso (R-Wyo.) and Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), moderated by former Sen. Mark Begich (D-Alaska). Begich works in Brownstein's Strategic Advisory Group, alongside Barry Jackson, former House Speaker John Boehner's longtime chief of staff and a former White House adviser to President George W. Bush. They discussed Puerto Rico, the Zika virus, the Supreme Court nomination, the opioid crisis and mental health, and the latest polls showing GOP voters doubting they'd vote for Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders supporters unsure if they'd back Hillary Clinton.
FLY-IN: The Property Casualty Insurers Association of America is bringing almost 100 home, auto and business insurance CEOs and senior executives to the Hill Wednesday to fight for state-based insurance and against international and federal regulatory standards. They also will be pushing for new auto safety provisions in the FAST Act.
IP: The U.S. Chamber's Global Intellectual Property Center is throwing a reception for World Intellectual Property Day tonight in Rayburn, with the International Trademark Association, the American Intellectual Property Law Association and the World Intellectual Property Organization. Rich Bagger, Chairman of GIPC, will deliver remarks on current issues being considered in Congress. Special guests and members of the Congressional Trademark Caucus, including Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.), and Reps. Randy Forbes (R-Va.) and Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), may also speak.
SUITS: Pro Financial Services' Patrick Temple-West reports that as life insurers discuss a possible lawsuit to stop the Labor Department's newly released fiduciary rule, there are concerns litigation could make the industry look bad. An internal memo from the American Council of Life Insurers suggested a lawsuit would not fit the industry's image of trustworthiness, though businesses have been considering legal action since the rule's proposal a year ago. The ACLI will meet with lawyers from WilmerHale about the possible suit, and will decide whether or not to proceed on May 5. ACLI has roughly 300 members, including State Farm, Pacific Life and Nationwide. The Chamber of Commerce and the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association may also be considering litigation on the rule. <<link>>
LIVE ACTION: Roll Call's Katie Ackley reports the conservative Heritage Action for America, a critic of corporate lobbyists, spent $170,000 on lobbying in the first quarter of 2016, the most it has ever reported. The spending shows Heritage is supplementing its grassroots activists, and Vice President of Communications and Government Relations Dan Holler said the group has recognized the need to "communicate directly with more offices on the Hill." Heritage created multiple federal lobbyist positions this year with a string of new hires including William Wolfe, formerly an aide to Rep. Dave Brat (R-Va.) and Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-N.C.), Josh Arnold, a former executive assistant to House
Freedom Caucus Chair Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), and Alex Vargo, an alumni of Generation Opportunity. The group reported lobbying on several issues, including blocking the renewal of the Export-Import bank, lifting sanctions on Iran and the congressional bailout of Puerto Rico. <<link>>
YOUNG MONEY: Billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer announced Monday his advocacy group NextGen Climate will spend at least $25 million this year on get-out-the-vote campaigns geared toward young voters, The New York Times' Coral Davenport reports. Steyer was the biggest political donor in the 2014 midterms, where he spent $74 million, much of which was used for TV advertising. This new campaign will instead focus on person-to-person contact and voter registration on at least 203 college campuses in seven mostly battleground states: Ohio, Pennsylvania, Iowa, Colorado, Nevada, New Hampshire and Illinois. Steyer said $25 million is just a minimum, and that the effort will be the largest
youth voter outreach program ever undertaken by a candidate or political campaign. <<link>>
NEW PAC REGISTRATIONS:
Victory For Donald
Bose Public Affairs Group LLC/Bose McKinney & Evans LLP PAC (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Lobbyist/Registrant PAC)
District Council 33 Political Contributions SSF (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
Solutions NJ PAC (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:
Dakota Strategies: Children's Hospital Association
Dakota Strategies: Major League Baseball
DC Strategies Group, LLC: Citizens for GMA Labeling
Hoekstra Global Strategies: Columbia Helicopters
J M Burkman & Associates: AG Monitoring
J M Burkman & Associates: J3 Bioscience Inc.
J M Burkman & Associates: Plas Tech
J M Burkman & Associates: ZSX
Winn Strategies, LLC: Twin Logic Strategies (on behalf of Zebra Technologies)
Witt Global Partners: Consumer Credit Industry Association
NEW LOBBYING TERMINATIONS:
None
TERMINATIONS - NO ACTIVITY:
California Credit Union League: National Association of Credit Union Service Organizations
Capitol Hill Partners: ProLiteracy
Capitol Hill Partners: Target Financial Services
GMD & Associates, Inc: Sulphur Springs Valley Electric Cooperative, Inc.
GMD & Associates, Inc: The Arizona Electric Power Cooperative, Inc.
GMD & Associates, Inc: Trico Electric Cooperative, Inc.
Third Party Payment Processors Association: Third Party Payment Processors Association
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
