NSM members and supporters are currently stationed in both Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere. Our Party and its supporters run deep into all aspects of American Society. Here is a letter from one of them. Check out what he says about the Democrats and Republicans not caring about the troops, that is a widely held belief amongst the military, and they are coming to us in larger numbers than ever before. 
Reprinted with permission from one of our Brothers in the Marine Corps: 
Hey Commander,
I know you have one busy schedule then to take time out of your day to read these messages. I have loved the NSM since I was in high school (I joined NSM yahoo group and spoke with the Sgt. in xxxxxxxxxx). I wish you well in the efforts to make a white America, I truly do. 
As for me I am going back to Iraq for another tour of duty. I want to ask you very seriously and very personally. If you see me (editted out xxxxx) ever killed over there, I want to make sure that America sees that the NSM cares all for its soldiers. You ARE THE ONLY WHITE Party we have left. You fight for our rights here, I fight for them on foreign soil. I am 19 years old, I love the USA, and I love white nations/people. If you have any time my phone number is (xxxxxx edit) I would like to tell you voice to voice that I want you to succeed here in the battle for the USA. 
John Taylor Bowles is a noble man and I wish him the best. This website was great to learn and navigate my way to my heritage here. As things are, my job in the Corps is Infantry. I did 1 tour of duty, and I lost most of my platoonmates. I am going back and if I come home with a Flag over me I want the NSM to remember its warriors. I want to be a part of the NSM and I will in this life or the next. I want our unity to be profounded and the NSM to show how much they care for the soldiers and the Democrats and Republicans just DON'T care for the soldiers anymore. Corporate Greed has taken them away, Im fighting a war for oil and land in Iraq. But I love my white lands/ancestry and people. I hope you can accomodate my request. Death Before Dishonour.
Semper Fidelis
Yours In Life and Death,
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx (editted for security purposes)
