05/15/2016 08:53 AM EDT
By Marc Caputo (user@domain.com; @MarcACaputo) and Daniel Lippman (user@domain.com; @dlippman)
TRUMP WHISPERER -- Maureen Dowd interviews him again, "The Mogul and the Babe": "[Speaker] Ryan didn't ask Trump to stop making remarks that alienate women? 'No,' Trump said, 'he wants me to be me.' So much for the showdown. When I asked if he had been chided by any Republicans for his Twitter feud with Elizabeth Warren, he replied, 'You mean Pocahontas?' So much for reining it in. I noted that John Cornyn said he gave Trump some tips on how to discuss illegal immigration more sensitively to woo Hispanic voters. 'I love getting advice,' Trump deadpanned. 'It's just what I need, just what I need is more advice. The 17 people I beat are still giving me advice.' Trump also briefly saw Poppy
Bush's guru, James Baker. 'I was more interested in asking him about Ronald and Nancy Reagan and the whole Reagan era than I was in terms of getting advice currently.'" <<link>>
It's Sunday morning in America. It's 64 days to Cleveland, 71 days to Philly, 177 days to election. And Florida Playbook has the wheel for another day.
TRUMP REFERENDUM - This year, the presidential race isn't a clear referendum on the outgoing president/incumbent, and whether he will effectively get four more years through Hillary Clinton. This is a referendum on Donald Trump, the reality show candidate, the infotainment ringmaster, the Twitter-meister. As Marshall McLuhan put it long ago, the medium is the message. Just watch today's Sunday talk shows. There are two major themes: WWTD (What Will Trump Do?) and WDTD (What Did Trump Do?).
ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED? -- "Hillary's playing the politician game, while Trump's playing the entertainer game. The entertainer game is a lot more exciting, and maybe more persuasive too," says one top Never Trump Republican, who summed up the mood of the shocked, and somewhat revolted, GOP establishment. This was a lament, not a point of pride. Whether it's a path to general-election victory is another matter. 
