Dear Mike  et al,
I offer the following comments on your letter
for your consideration.
It seems to me there are 2 primary issues to
address:
(A) what does proxy evidence say about whether
the Medieval Warm period was global
(B) what do we know about potential mechanisms
for the Medieval Warm period
(i) evidence for a forced phenomenon
(ii) evidence for internal variability
Issue (A) is currently dealt with in your sections (1) and
(2). One point that could be perhaps conveyed more
clearly is the necessity of using the spatial information
conveyed in (multi) proxy reconstructions, rather than
overly interpreting sets of local proxy evidence. I
felt this point could have been stressed more, and is one
which the casual reader may not appreciate.
Issue (B, Bi) is in your section (3). I suggest a more
explicit mention of conclusions with regard to the
Medieval Warm period in recent work on this topic.
The first statement in this section doesn't provide
(I don't think) explicit evidence to back itself up. The
sentence starting "These results ..." could be more
explicit about what those studies show with respect to
the Medieval Warm period, in addition to the more general
statement about the partitionng between forced and internal
variability. A reader could ask "Ok, if 50% of the variability
is explained by volcanic and solar forcing, that doesn't
exclude the other 50% playing a strong role for events such as
the Medieval Warming." Such a question could be dealt with
in advance by stating what role these studies suggest for
radiative forcing in the Medieval Warm period.
For issue (Bii), I would suggest being explicit that
it is incumbent upon authors to provide some evidence to
support their speculation. What evidence can the author
provide to support his speculation concerning the role of
the THC in the Medieval Warm period? Rather than explicitly
stating this is not a likely mechanism, I would contrast the
speculation he has offered on this topic to the stronger
(in my opinion) evidence provided by modeling studies to
support the idea of the importance of radiative forcing.
... a few more minor comments
(1) I agree with the overall message you are conveying, but
might choose somewhat differing wording in a place or
two. The statement is made "(1) It cannot reasonably be
argued that the Middle Ages were as warm as the
20th century at global or hemispheric scales." This
might be a bit strong ... I would think one can have
a reasoned discussion on this topic. Perhaps something
like "We strongly disagree with the assertion that the
Middle Ages were as warm as the 20th century at global
or hemispheric scales."
(2) In the second to last sentence, I would add the
qualifying phrase "on planetary scales" after the
text "... responsible for centennial-millenial changes ...".
Regards,
Tom Delworth
ps The central issue is one that I have not been heavily
involved in, and thus don't think it's appropriate for
me to sign on as an author. Good luck, and please
send me a copy of your final submission.
pps I previously provided to Tom correlations between the
THC and global/hemispheric temperature based on a 900 year
run of our R30 coupled model. These correlations were
relatively low (0.27), but probably significant. The
applicability of those correlations to the issue of the
Medieval Warming may not be strong. If the Medieval Warming
is a multi-century event, then I should really be looking at
the correlations of low frequency (>50 years) filtered model
output from a run of several millenia duration. Thus, the
900 year run may not be applicable. I will revisit this
topic using a multi-millenial R15 coupled run, but probably
won't have any results today. I don't think that would
change the essential conclusions, however. I recall that
experiments with the R15 model in which the THC was substantially
weakened through the addition of fresh water to the North
Atlantic provided strong regional temperature anomalies, but
their global expression was small. These experiments are
being repeated with the higher resolution model.
In light of these issues, I suggest that the focus be
not so much on saying the THC cannot be responsible for the
Medieval Warming, but rather on saying (1) there is strong
evidence for a substantial role of radiative forcing, and (2) the
burden is on the author to provide evidence for the role of
the THC.
?
