<x-flowed>
This is an excellent idea, Mike, IN PRINCIPLE at least.  In practise, 
however, it raises some interesting results (as I have found when 
attempting this myself) that may be difficult to avoid getting bogged down 
with discussing.
The attached .pdf figure shows an example of what I have produced (NB. 
please don't circulate this further, as it is from work that is currently 
being finished off - however, I'm happy to use it here to illustrate my point).
I took 7 reconstructions and re-calibrated them over a common period and 
against an observed target series (in this case, land-only, Apr-Sep, >20N - 
BUT I GET SIMILAR RESULTS WITH OTHER CHOICES, and this re-calibration stage 
is not critical).  You will have seen figures similar to this in stuff 
Keith and I have published.  See the coloured lines in the attached figure.
In this example I then simply took an unweighted average of the calibrated 
series, but the weighted average obtained via an EOF approach can give 
similar results.  The average is shown by the thin black line (I've ignored 
the potential problems of series covering different periods).  This was all 
done with raw, unsmoothed data, even though 30-yr smoothed curves are 
plotted in the figure.
The thick black line is what I get when I re-calibrate the average record 
against my target observed series.  THIS IS THE IMPORTANT BIT.  The 
*re-calibrated* mean of the reconstructions is nowhere near the mean of the 
reconstructions.  It has enhanced variability, because averaging the 
reconstructions results in a redder time series (there is less common 
variance between the reconstructions at the higher frequencies compared 
with the lower frequencies, so the former averages out to leave a smoother 
curve) and the re-calibration is then more of a case of fitting a trend 
(over my calibration period 1881-1960) to the observed trend.  This results 
in enhanced variability, but also enhanced uncertainty (not shown here) due 
to fewer effective degrees of freedom during calibration.
Obviously there are questions about observed target series, which series to 
include/exclude etc., but the same issue will arise regardless: the 
analysis will not likely lie near to the middle of the cloud of published 
series and explaining the reasons behind this etc. will obscure the message 
of a short EOS piece.
It is, of course, interesting - not least for the comparison with 
borehole-based estimates - but that is for a separate paper, I think.
My suggestion would be to stick with one of these options:
(i) a single example reconstruction;
(ii) a plot of a cloud of reconstructions;
(iii) a plot of the "envelope" containing the cloud of reconstructions 
(perhaps also the envelope would encompass their uncertainty estimates), 
but without showing the individual reconstruction best guesses.
How many votes for each?
Cheers
Tim
