Hi Nigel, We basically discussed our script reaction (that you already know) and followed the following questionnaire: SCRIPT REACTION:We loved the script! Very funny, very colorful and nobody will be disappointed despite of the fact that the bar set by the previous chapter is really high. We´ve got a great concept with Hotel T and  we are so happy that thitos new script is so powerful. It is not just that the movie has many very funny jokes and flashbacks that will make it appealing to both kids and parents, it is also that this script sets a really good and rich playground to develop a strong marketing concepts to sell the movie:  1.- The cohabitation between monsters and humans: exploit the contrast between us and them…2.- How to become a good Vamp: Vamps Camp to teach you how to become a Vamp. How to improve your performance,  blood tasting, etc..3.- The babysitting grandparents ( so much in use lately!): many grandparents will be reflected into this story. Since they spend so much time with their grandchildren, they really want to educate them the way they want to, even if that means to do it against the kid´s parent wishes. Again we want to go back to what we did in the first chapter and widely use the local voices ( Social media driven)  that worked so well previously and probably add a new local voice for Vlad. QUESTIONNAIRE:Post Mortem: HOTEL T 1: o What were the strongest elements of the brand in your territory? HT1 is extremely fun and intelligent and we had to be have to be very careful with the new film, it has to be as intelligent as the previous one including jokes for adult audience.o Did you have creative assets that allowed you the flexibility to properly exploit the brand for your campaign? Yes, we had everything we needed. We have to keep the materials focused on the main characters, those who are known for everyone: Dracula, Frankenstein, Mummy… o Considering all dimensions (trailers, TV spots, digital, promotions, etc.), what aspects of your campaign for HOTEL T 1 were most successful? All the materials were really cool, but we think that trailers and print campaign were outstanding. o What aspects were least successful? Would you have done them differently or not at all? What were the learnings? We need creative in-theatre materials with enough anticipation. These are some very good examples: ·          Kinepolis_gru: <<link>> ·         Cinesa_gru: <<link>> ·         Cinesa Christmas_gru: <<link>> o Who were your promotional partners? Our promotional partners were Granini, Santander, Burger King, El Corte Inglés, Neck&Neck, Puma and Iberia. o Was the voice talent accessible to you for publicity? Did they add meaningfully to the awareness of the film? We had our local dubbing talents and they were part of the success of the film. Regarding internacional talents, Sofia Vergara dubbing a character would be great, she can make it in English and in Spanish and it would be a great asset for Spain and LATAM.  o What demos were the strongest for the film? Kids and families.   • HOTEL T 2: o What are the strongest elements of the brand for this sequel? The movie has been positioned on top of mind of our audience and the well-known characters. Locally, the dubbing was a huge success using local voice talents that we will replicate on the new movie. § What do you think the positioning for the film is? It should also be families and kids § What kind of focus should the creative assets have to maximize the opportunity? ·         We should use the same characters, they had a huge success among the audience. ·         The cohabitation between monsters and humans: exploit the contrast between us and them… ·         How to become a good Vamp: Vamps Camp to teach you how to become a Vamp. How to improve your performance,  blood tasting, etc..·         The babysitting grandparents ( so much in use lately!): many grandparents will be reflected into this story. Since they spend so much time with their grandchildren, they really want to educate them the way they want to, even if that means to do it against the kid´s parent wishes.§ Any examples of creative from competing campaigns in the territory which may be relevant to a direction you’d like to see for this brand? The in-theatre materials as previously described. o How has the market for family animated film evolved since the last film in terms of demos? How can the film be positioned to take advantage of these changes? Since 2 years ago until now the market has got even better for family movies. Nowadays, the main target audience are adults and kids + parents. Family movies are the ones with best held over week after weeko What platform(s) (trailers, TV, outdoor, digital etc.) will be the primary driver(s) for the film? TV, Trailers, OOH and Digital § Is there a particular platform you want to make more use of that has evolved since the release of the last film? The motion poster is a great tool for in theatre marketing. We have our own in theatre screens at the cinemas’ lobbys. We can also use it at the cinema circuits siteso Is longer lead marketing and/or downstream marketing (post release) appropriate for your release date? Will it be feasible given the constraints on budgets? We definitely will plan a longer lead marketing campaign § Are there holidays pre-release or post release which fit into this strategy if it makes sense for your territory? (location holidays, National Day, Halloween?) Probably Summer campaign but we should focus in back to school campaign, which is one of the most important campaign focused to our core target.§ If constraints on the budget exist, are there creative ways to achieve your goals? Given our previous results and our estimate we shouldn´t have marketing budget problems. o Who are your ideal promotional partners and how will they help your messaging and reach? We will try to maintain most of the first movie partners (Burger King, Neck&Neck, Granini..), as they have a huge penetration in their respective areas reaching our core targets, and reinforce our promotional communications with new brands (Haribo, Nestlé, Nutrexpa, Dulcesol, a Car brand…).  o In terms of local product films within the window of release, who are you most concerned about? How will they position and for what demos? Does any adjustment in our positioning need to happen? There are no local releases close to our release date at this moment General: o How can SPA help you directly to maximize the opportunity with this film? For example: § Creation of a local monster we can use somewhere in the campaign? We like the idea but is not an easy one…. We haven´t identify a local monster. § End credits music with global appeal that will also work strongly in your market? Yes, we need music with global appeal that are well known everywhere.Please let me know if you need any additional information. PP De: Losada, Ivan 
Dear Nigel, yes, it happened but it was purely a discussion. It went really well.
From: Clark, Nigel 
Dear Ivan,Did this call happen, and if so how did it go? Was it a discussion, or was there a written follow-up email?Best regards,Nigel From: Losada, Ivan 
Hi Jeffrey,How about Wednesday 23 or Thrusday 24, at  9.00am LA Time?                                Please adviseBestIvan  De: Varanini, Jeffrey 
Ivan, Whenever it’s most convenient for you to review – anytime within the next week or two would be ideal for us. Best, Jeffrey VaraniniTel: 310-840-8378 Email: user@domain.com From: Losada, Ivan 
Hello Jeffrey! We are working on all these topics already.  When would you like set the call to go over it?Please adviseBestIvan   De: Varanini, Jeffrey 
Ivan, I don’t believe we’ve met – I work for Bob Osher at SPA and focus on business strategy and franchise for our properties.  In this capacity, I also work closely to support Becky Chaires and her team here. Sincere thanks in advance for making the time for this.  We want to be the best possible partner we can be to help you take our film to the next level. These are the topics we’d like to cover with you on a call.  Let us know if we missed anything or asking the wrong questions.  Also, please let me how I should get on your calendar when you have a chance. All the best, Jeffrey VaraniniBusiness & Franchise DevelopmentTel: 310-840-8378 Email: user@domain.com 