Please find a nice account on Standard Chartered, a once high-flying investment bank, and its serous woes resulting from the end of the rapid expansion in emerging markets triggered by the end of the US QE program and by other factors.
From the WSJ, FYI,David
Don’t Get in the Bunker With Standard Chartered
Bank’s Promises of a Quick End to Its Struggles Ring Hollow
Standard Chatered CEO Peter Sands has tried to allay fears over risks in its lending books — — Bloomberg News
By Paul J. Davies
Nov. 13, 2014 1:00 p.m. ET
Standard Chartered is in the bunker. Executives have been forced to defend their stewardship
of the U.K.-listed bank in the face of fevered debate about a possible 
change in leadership. The stock has lost nearly 30% in value so far this
year. Its price-to-book-value multiple is at its lowest in 20 years, 
even below levels reached during the depths of the financial crisis.As
tempting as that may be for bargain hunters, especially given the 
stock’s chunky 5.4% dividend yield, Standard Chartered looks like a 
potential value trap.Fueling the angst about the bank are fears of losses on bad loans in the emerging markets
where Standard Chartered operates, as well as worries about its capital
base. Some investors are even concerned that a multibillion-dollar 
rights issue could be on the horizon.The bank’s answer, at the 
end of a three-day investor presentation in Hong Kong this week, was 
disappointing: It pinned hopes for a return to profitable growth on an 
old banking chestnut, cross-selling.Chief Executive 
Peter Sands
and his team have tried to allay fears over risks in its lending 
books. But the bank was an eager lender during Asia’s credit boom, which
is now in the late stages as economies slow. And some of the bank’s fastest growth was in areas most exposed to the slowdown in China. The
bank admits it will see higher loan losses. It expects impairments on 
corporate debt over the next few quarters to run at the increased levels
seen in the third quarter, when a sharp jump prompted a profit warning.Despite management’s optimistic view, the risk is that things get even worse before they get better.
In the seven full years of Mr. Sands’ tenure, the bank’s balance sheet has grown by 2½ times. For comparison, 
HSBC
ended 2013 less than half as big as it ended 2006. Standard 
Chartered’s overall growth wasn’t out of sync with economic growth in 
its markets—and until last year profits followed a similar path.However,
lending growth wasn’t balanced. Its loans to the mining industry grew 
more than sixfold, while those to commercial real estate—- mostly in the
hot-money centers of Hong Kong and Singapore—are more than four times 
bigger. Exposure to banks, especially in China and India, and 
commodities traders has grown fourfold or more as well.Three-quarters
of all commodities-related exposure has a maturity of less than one 
year, the bank said this week. That should make such exposures less 
risky. However, $113 million in losses on phantom collateral in a 
Chinese metals warehouse this year show risks in the sector aren’t 
always straightforward.More concerning: If corporate loan losses
track third-quarter levels, Standard Chartered will take a hit of $1 
billion this year and slightly more next year. Prior experience shows 
that things can get much worse. In 2009, the bank’s loan-loss rate was 
double this year’s level so far; in 2001 it was three times higher after
collateral seizures and sales.The bank said it can generate 
about 0.3 percentage points of capital per year through retained 
earnings, which would equal about $1 billion. A doubling of loan-loss 
rates in its corporate book would wipe that out; any more, and the bank 
would start going backward even without deterioration among retail 
borrowers.With core equity tier 1 capital of $37 billion and a 
ratio of 10.7% under Basel III, the bank has a cushion of only about 
$2.5 billion above the 10% ratio it won’t want to breach. That isn’t 
very thick, given the prospect of further penalties from U.S. 
investigations into past sanctions breaches.Mr. Sands believes 
recovery lies mainly in increasing nonfinancing revenue from existing 
clients—adding profits without adding credit risk. This will be tough if
clients are under pressure themselves.The bank is determined to
avoid a rights issue, but will need to be lucky with U.S. regulators 
and emerging-markets growth. Standard Chartered’s bunker looks far from 
bulletproof.
