*NSM Forms up in Great Britain:*
<<link>>
We are pleased and Honored to announce the Formation of the British Free
Corps (NSM's British Division).
The New 'British Free Corps'
The BFC is the official British (UK) division of the National Socialist
Movement (NSM). Our aim is to preserve and strengthen the cultural identity
of the British people through National Socialism.
All future members will help the movement in whatever way they can. This
will not only be to help the BFC move forward, but to offer our help to
other National Socialist groups and to create unity.
*Due to the Division being in its infancy, we have yet to complete the
standards for membership. Information about becoming a member will be poste=
d
on the website in two weeks time. Apologies for the delay.*
"We must secure the existence of our people and a future for White
children."
The Original 'British Free Corps'
British Free Corps (BFC) or sometimes incorrectly referred to in the German
form as Britisches Freikorps was a unit of the Waffen-SS consisting of
British and Dominion prisoners of war who had been recruited by the Nazis i=
n
WW2. Adrian Weale's research has identified about 59 men who belonged to
this unit at one time or another, some for only a few days, and at no time
did it reach more than 27 men in strength =97 smaller than a contemporary
German platoon - but saw many actions with the German army.
British Free Corps Website
It has taken just a few week of planning for a British division of the NSM
to be established. Helping to unite all true National Socialists across the
UK is one major aim of the British Free Corps. This began days before the
BFC was formed and membership has taken off at an ever increasing rate!
The official website (www.BritishFreeCorps.org) has been hastily set up due
to overwhelming numbers of prospective members wanting contact information
and to learn more about the active division.
United Kingdom to National Socialist Movement Commander: Stay Out!
The National Socialist Movement (NSM) announced today receipt of a letter
from the British Home Office Border & Immigration Agency formally excluding
Commander Jeff Schoep from entering the UK. The Home Secretary's letter
cites alleged "views" by the Commander capable of "fostering hatred which
might lead to inter-community violence in the United Kingdom." Noting the
Home Secretary's attempt to censure free speech, the Commander reinforced
his support for all British patriots: "We wish all of the Freedom Fighters
in the U.K. the best. Your Comrades across the Pond Salute your efforts
against the tyrannical Regime that is destroying your Homeland. We stand
with you in Solidarity." The NSM cannot appeal the decision. British leader=
s
increasingly face hostile citizens outraged at Government complicity in
degrading the fabric of British life. "The Home Secretary's actions
demonstrate a level of desperation," said an NSM spokesman familiar with th=
e
situation. "The British government really does have a problem. Immigrants,
particularly muslims, flood the country demanding permanent changes in laws
and social mores. British citizens, like all true nationalists, instictivel=
y
react with anger. The Home Secretary must keep both groups under tight
control. Even so, the fuse is lit." As proven by the recent formation of th=
e
BFC!
British Free Corps Established
Tuesday 1st January 2008
[image: British Free Corps]
