<x-flowed>
Dear folks,
Thank you very much for all of your emails, and my apologies for the 
delay in replying - I've been on travel for much of the past week.
Peter, I think you've done a nice job in capturing some of my concerns 
about the Douglass et al. paper. Our CCSP Report helped to illustrate 
that there were large structural uncertainties in both the radiosonde- 
and MSU-based estimates of tropospheric temperature change. The 
scientific evidence available at the time we were finalizing the CCSP 
Report - from Sherwood et al. (2005) and the (then-unpublished) Randel 
and Wu paper - strongly suggested that a residual cooling bias existed 
in the sonde-based estimates of tropospheric temperature change.
As you may recall, we showed results from both the RATPAC and HadAT2 
radiosonde datasets in the CCSP Report and the Santer et al. (2005) 
Science paper. From the latter (see, e.g., our Figure 3B and Figures 
4C,D), it was clear that there were physically-significant differences 
between the simulated temperature trends in the tropical lower 
troposphere (over 1979 to 1999) and the trends estimated from RATPAC, 
HadAT2, and UAH data. In both the Science paper and the CCSP Report, we 
judged that residual biases in the observations provided the most likely 
explanation for these model-versus-data trend discrepancies.
Douglass et al. come to a fundamentally different conclusion, and 
ascribe model-versus-data differences to model error. They are not 
really basing this conclusion on new model data or on new observational 
data. The only "new" observational dataset that they use is an early 
version of Leo Haimberger's radiosonde dataset (RAOBCORE v1.2). Leo's 
dataset was under development at the time all of us were working on the 
CCSP Report and the Santer et al. Science paper. It was not available 
for our assessment in 2005. As Leo has already shared with you, newer 
versions of RAOBCORE (v1.3 and v1.4) show amplification of surface 
warming in the tropical troposphere, in reasonable agreement with the 
model results that we presented in Fig. 3B of our Science paper. 
Douglass et al. did not use these newer versions of RAOBCORE v1.2. Nor 
did Douglass et al. use any "inconvenient" observational datasets (such 
as the NESDIS-based MSU T2 dataset of Zou et al., or the MSU T2 product 
of Vinnikov and Grody) showing pronounced tropospheric warming over the 
satellite era. Nor did Douglass et al. discuss the "two timescale issue" 
that formed an important part of our Science paper (i.e., how could 
models and multiple observational datasets show amplification behavior 
that was consistent in terms of monthly variability but inconsistent in 
terms of decadal trends?) Nor did Douglass et al. fairly portray results 
from Peter's 2007 GRL paper. In my personal opinion, Douglass et al. 
have ignored all scientific evidence that is in disagreement with their 
view of how the real world should be behaving.
I don't think it's a good strategy to submit a response to the Douglass 
et al. paper to the International Journal of Climatology (IJC). As Phil 
pointed out, IJC has a large backlog, so it might take some time to get 
a response published. Furthermore, Douglass et al. probably would be 
given the final word.
My suggestion is to submit (to Science) a short "update" of our 2005 
paper. This update would only be submitted AFTER publication of the four 
new radiosonde-based temperature datasets mentioned by Peter. The update 
would involve:
1) Use of all four new radiosonde datasets.
2) Use of the latest versions of the UAH and RSS TLT data, and the 
latest versions of the T2 data from UAH, RSS, UMD (Vinnikov and Grody), 
and NESDIS (Zou et al.).
3) Use of the T2 data in 2) above AND the UAH and RSS T4 data to 
calculate tropical "TFu" temperatures, with all possible combinations of 
T4 and T2 datasets (e.g., RSS T4 and UMD T2, UAH T4 and UMD T2, etc.)
4) Calculating synthetic MSU temperatures from all model 20c3m runs 
currently available in the IPCC AR4 database. Calculation of synthetic 
MSU temperatures would rely on a method suggested by Carl (using 
weighting functions that depend on both the surface type [land, ocean] 
and the surface pressure at each grid-point) rather than on the static 
global-mean weighting function that we used previously. This is probably 
several months of work - but at least it will keep me off the streets 
and out of trouble.
5) Formal determination of statistical significance of 
model-versus-observed trend differences.
6) Brief examination of timescale-dependence of amplification factors.
7) As and both Peter and Melissa suggested, brief examination of 
sensitivity of estimated trends to the selected analysis period (e.g., 
use of 1979 to 1999; use of 1979 to 2001 or 2003 [for the small number 
of model 20c3m runs ending after 1999]; use of data for the post-NOAA9 
period).
This will be a fair bit of effort, but I think it's worth it. Douglass 
et al. will try to make maximum political hay out of their IJC paper - 
which has already been sent to Andy Revkin at the New York Times. You 
can bet they've sent it elsewhere, too. I'm pretty sure that our 
colleague JC will portray Douglass et al. as definitive "proof" that all 
climate models are fundamentally flawed, UAH data are in amazing 
agreement with sonde-based estimates of tropospheric temperature change, 
global warming is not a serious problem, etc.
One of the most disturbing aspects of Douglass et al. is its abrupt 
dismissal of the finding (by Sherwood et al. and Randel and Wu) of a 
residual tropospheric cooling bias in the sonde data. Douglass et al. 
base this dismissal on the Christy et al. (2007) JGR paper, and on 
Christy's finding of biases in the night-time sonde data that magically 
offset the biases in the day-time data. Does that sound familiar? When 
did we last hear about new biases magically offsetting the effect of 
recently-discovered biases? As Yogi Berra would say, this is deja vu all 
over again....
I hope that one of the papers on the new sonde-based datasets directly 
addresses the subject of 'error compensation' in the day-time and 
night-time sonde data. This would be important to do.
It's unfortunate that Douglass et al. will probably be published well 
before the appearance of the papers on the new radiosonde datasets, and 
before an updated comparison of modeled-and observed tropospheric 
temperature trends.
I'd be grateful if you could let me know whether you are in agreement 
with the response strategy I've outlined above, and would like to be 
involved with an update of our 2005 Science paper.
With best regards,
Ben
