Just keeping you in the loop….fyi only.All fine.  From: Basil-Jones, Stephen 
Dear Jeffrey, Thanks for the Hotel T 2 ‘deck’…. we’re so excited about this pic…..and indeed your notes summarize well our push in Australia to position the sequel as a return of another fun time at Hotel T….with Mavis , Drac , Johnny ‘the cool dude’ & all our favourite loveable monsters…not the really scary, ghoulish aspects. We need to avoid highlighting Mavis as a mother of course…she was a young teenage girl last time we saw her,(not so long ago)  but we can signal the next adventure/chapter of Hotel T by showing scenes of her excitement about going out into the real world. Emphasis is on Fun & Humorous slapstick moments .Colour was so well used last time in materials to convey this fun positioning….which countered the dark/black scary colours of Dracula.Australia’s later release timing of November allows such a good campaign development with expected availability of materials ! So please see our additional information & amendments below . Cheers, Stephen  From: Varanini, Jeffrey 
Stephen, Libby, Felicity and Xanthe, Please see the Australia section of the presentation attached.  The next draft you will see following this one will include all of the territories and strategic recommendations at a global level, again for your review and approval before it goes to Nigel and elsewhere. Here are the things I need your help with: ·         Please confirm that my notes are correct.  On the summary (pp 7-8), wherever there is a blank spot or TBD for Australia, can you tell me what I should put there?Page 7. Characters to Push : Mavis, Johnny, Frank , Griffin and The Werewolf Family….less of Drac’.Sequences Most Useful for Marketing; - We have itemized these in detail for page 11 as well but Mavis being her ‘young-girl’ self, (perhaps when she goes into the real world and has a great level of excitement clearly signals the next adventure ), the fun of all the Monsters and Johnny still being a dude.Dubbing/Local Stunt Casting: Not applicable or requested for us.Specific Call-Outs: Could we replace Target & K-Mart with the words “Key retailers incl. Shopping malls & airport shops”…..we are uncertain at this early stage as to likely partnerships.Campaign Start: May 2015 ( For Licensee, Retail Promo partner & Exhibitor presentations). Page 8Teaser Trailer:- Returning popular characters of Mavis, Johnny, Drac and all the fun monsters from Hotel T in a new fun adventure.Digital Content:-  (We had excellent assets for the last film but would suggest the following):-  ·         Light-hearted clips in the first instance to position the film as “fun” straight off.·         Selena Gomez greetings/clip introductions for the ‘tween/teen websites.·         The “Call Me Mavy” clip was great for the last film but due to music issues, it could only be used for a short time. I think if we got a similar song/clip happening we could use this to great effect.  Page 9(Left hand-side bottom Box)Desired promotional partners ; QSR: Boost Juice (McDonalds unlikely to have a window) Retail: - Key Chains,Shopping malls & airport shops…holiday season push.(Westfield, Officeworks, Cotton On Kids, Howard’s Storage Department Store)Packaged Foods : Mamee Monster Snacks, LZ Branded Juice  Topline. (Last bullet point) Frank , Griffin and Werewolf family are also popular characters plus The Blob & the “old Granny”…she was funny and liked despite limited exposure. Page 10(Left hand-side bottom Box)Desired promotional partners ; QSR: Boost Juice (McDonalds unlikely to have a window) Retail: - Key Chains,Shopping malls & airport shops…holiday season push.(Westfield, Officeworks, Cotton On Kids, Howard’s Storage Department Store)Packaged Foods : Mamee Monster Snacks, LZ Branded Juice Strategy Keys (cont)(Second bullet point)-Maximize the retail opportunities during 2015 Halloween only (albeit a smaller event in Australia ) with any key retailers. Page 111.Mavis in BMX stunt /riding scenes2. Johnny & Mavis’ Wedding3.Monster Road Trip…pop sing-along.4. Werewolf party5.Hawaiian Buffet Scene6. Old Granny scenes ·         Anywhere you feel there are any additional examples from competitor’s campaigns that are relevant to the points they are making (and something we didn’t do for the first HOTEL film), please let me know so I can include.·          We’ve made the key requests for what DWA and Pixar/Disney/Illumination have done…and these have been noted & listed….thank you !!·         Can you provide a very rough timeline for the campaign (I know it’s very, very early but your sense)?May 2015 ………Scene Clips/Film Overview presentation to Licensees, Retail & Promo partners & Major Exhibitors). Teaser Poster availableMid-June/July 2015…….Teaser Trailer on –screen with our “winter school vacation” film fare….incl. Inside Out, Minions, Monster Trucks.July 2015………Launch  Trailer & Poster & In-Theatre materials (Digital & Static) available.August 2015……Policy Trailer “Turn Of Cell Phones” or “Put on 3D glasses”.September 2015….Launch Trailer on with “Spring School holiday Films ….(B.O.O., Goosebumps,Pixels)October 2015……Early Seeding campaign to coincide with HalloweenNovember 2015….Advertising Campaign commences.  ·         On the last slide, can you add the sequences you feel will work for you based on a read of the script (I believe you should have that by now)?·         Page 11·         1.Mavis in BMX stunt /riding scenes·         2. Johnny & Mavis’ Wedding·         3.Monster Road Trip…pop sing-along.·         4. Werewolf party·         5.Hawaiian Buffet Scene·         6. Old Granny scenes ·         Can you clarify your comments on Drac being too scary by contrasting him to Gru from DESPICABLE ME 2, and how he was handled in the territory?It’s a fair point but Gru was also softened by having the charming little girl & Minions around…..and the same goes with Drac’…evil characters are always memorable…Geez…goes back to the Wicked Witches and all those in classic Disney films…but ensuring Drac. When he is trying to be ghoulish/scary/evil…is surrounded by fun loving /easy going likeable characters…to soften the “scare” factor.  ·         On the subject of Adam, can you clarify your comments just so we put them in the right context?  GROWNS-UP 2 did reasonably well in Australia (at least I think) … and will his presence in PIXELS help or hurt this film?  Original GROWN UPS was a massive hit  (LC$12.1 mill) & there was such goodwill for the sequel  .. GROWN UPS 2 (LC$11.1 mill)  & was a success too….despite the quality of the film. Of recent times, Jack & Jill/ That’s My Boy/ Blended all very poor.Adam’s presence in PIXELS will be a help, this is looking to be a fabulous hit film…a great concept/story-line, fun & will be competently Directed…plus Adam is part of an ensemble cast & not his usual lead role being, rude,offensive, stupid & crazy . Many thanks again and let me know if you have questions.Same goes from us !Best,  Jeffrey VaraniniTel: 310-840-8378 Email: user@domain.com