05/18/2016 07:46 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Wednesday morning, Illinois. Stunning delays at Chicago's airports had Illinois pols in a mad scramble to bring some relief and shake some sanity into the Transportation Security Administration, not to mention the airlines. 
The boldest ultimatum came from U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk, R-Ill., who gave TSA chief Peter Neffenger until Memorial Day to improve Chicago airport waits or resign. TSA is advising Chicago travelers to build in three hours to go through security and a weekend snafu left more than 400 travelers stranded. U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin, D-Ill., moved to secure 58 workers and Mayor Rahm Emanuel announced a shift in resources, including tripling overtime and making full-time a group of part-time workers. 
The big unanswered question: How did security lines get this bad? Airlines have pointed to TSA issues. But are the ever-rising costs of checking luggage at least partially to blame? On Tuesday, Dept. of Homeland Security chief Jeh Johnson said part of the recent delays are tied to the rise in running screening for carry-on bags. An increase in checked luggage would help alleviate the issue, but passengers frequently complain of airlines' insistence on charging fees to check their bags. So, might airlines consider a change in checked baggage policy? 
CHA-CHING: Last year, airlines hauled in $3.8 billion from baggage fees. <<link>> 
DURBIN IMPLORES AIRLINES TO CONSIDER WAIVING FEES -- "More and more passengers are carrying their bags on, that means going through security, where we're unfortunately finding things that stop the process," Durbin said. "So I'm calling on the major airlines to [waive] baggage check fees for the summer months. They can help us solve this problem." WTTW: <<link>> 
MATH - As Crain's points out in its reporting, TSA staffing levels dropped and more employees were moved to part-time at both Chicago airports even as passenger travel increased. "The 1,932 staff members TSA had on hand at O'Hare as of last year were 113 fewer than in 2012. Midway's TSA headcount last year, of 471 people, fell as compared to 2013 and 2014. Both airports have seen full-time security staffs drop in recent years, while TSA has emphasized hiring part-time workers. 
"Skimpier TSA headcounts and more fliers are a combination playing out in Chicago and around the U.S. Staffing authorized by Congress for the TSA fell from 47,147 full-time employees in 2013 to 42,525 this year, a decrease of almost 10 percent, according to agency data. At the same time, the volume of passengers nationwide rose from 643 million to an estimated 740 million this year, or 15 percent." <<link>> 
** A message from VoteVets Action Fund: Strong prevailing wage laws improve the lives of veterans, who work in construction at much higher rates than non-veterans. Each year, prevailing wage laws help hundreds of thousands of returning veterans put their skills to work building our communities while providing a middle class life for their families. - <<link>> **
TSA ULTIMATUM -- U.S. Senator Mark Kirk called on Transportation Security Administration Administrator Peter Neffenger to resign if he's unable to turn around lengthy wait times by Memorial Day. Kirk sent a letter to Neffenger asking him to detail how $34 million in recent TSA funding was spent. "The flying public is experiencing a high security risk and economic burden from unnecessary wait times and missed flights due to insufficient staffing at TSA. Congress just approved $34 million for TSA to focus funding where it is needed most - at our nation's busiest airports like O'Hare. TSA should also immediately deploy bomb-sniffing dog teams to advance hours long lines at Midway," Kirk said
in a statement. "If travelers do not have relief by Memorial Day, TSA Administration Neffenger must resign and be replaced with a leader who can provide fast and secure screening." 
GET THEM MOVING -- "Sen. Durbin: 58 more security officers going to O'Hare ASAP," by Chicago Sun-Times staff: "Sen. Dick Durbin said Tuesday that the Department of Homeland Security will send 58 ... additional security officers to O'Hare International Airport immediately to help cut security wait times that have stretched two hours or more. 'We need more security officers and more screening lines open and running to bring down wait times, and Secretary Johnson assured me that DHS and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) are moving quickly to hire and train additional security officers. They will send 58 new security officers and four additional bomb-sniffing canine teams to
O'Hare immediately,' Durbin said in a statement." <<link>> 
AMERICAN AIRLINES CHIPPING IN -- "TSA lines so bad American Airlines is paying for backup," by Chicago Daily Herald's Marni Pyke: "In response to a shortage of Transportation Security Administration officers, American Airlines is hiring workers to assist at checkpoints with a contingent expected to start in O'Hare International Airport's Terminal Three this week. This will free up TSA employees to screen travelers while the extras hand out bins and remind passengers to remove their shoes, American spokeswoman Leslie Scott said Monday." <<link>> 
TSA CHIEF ON CHICAGO 'I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT WAS' -- NBC NEWS: "TSA Administrator Peter Neffenger apologized at a travel conference Tuesday in Houston to the more than 450 passengers who didn't make it onto their flights overnight Sunday and Monday as the security screening lines crept along at O'Hare. 'We had a significant challenge in Chicago yesterday,' Neffenger said. 'I don't know what that was, but fixing that, that is of great concern to me.' 
Among the measures likely to be most controversial, the TSA will also strongly encourage airlines to find ways to reduce the size and number of carry-ons, the screening of which Johnson said 'has a lot to do with the wait time.' Checked baggage is easier and more efficient to handle, he said. But fees for checking extra bags are among the most frequently cited complaints that passengers already have about airlines. 'No, it's not a permanent solution," Johnson said. But "no one should have to wait three hours to get to the gate.' <<link>>  
CHICAGO 'ONLY CITY' TO RUN AIRPORTS OUT OF CITY HALL' -- "Aldermen, SEIU Push To Take Airport Control Away From Emanuel," by CBS Chicago: "Several alderman have joined union airport workers in an effort to create an elected airport authority, and wrestle control of O'Hare and Midway airports away from Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Supporters of the push for an elected airport board is that every other major airport in the U.S. is run by either an elected authority, or a board one appointed by both the local mayor and the governor. They said Chicago is the only city to have its airports run directly out of City Hall. 'Throughout the United States and internationally, there are airport authorities,
there are airport boards that work together with the constituencies of each of those cities and countries to make sure that it is the taxpayers, the citizens, the people that use those airports that are put first,' Ald. Scott Waguespack (32nd) said." <<link>> 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
'BARE BONES' CPS FACING MORE CUTS -- "Chicago School Budgets Could Be Slashed By Up To 30 Percent, CPS Warns," by DNAinfo's Heather Cherone: "Chicago Public Schools officials Tuesday warned principals to expect budget cuts of about 26 percent as city leaders continue to push state lawmakers to change the way schools are funded and close CPS' $1 billion budget deficit. A principal who attended the meeting but was not authorized to speak to the news media said the cuts would be catastrophic for his Far Northwest Side school and would force him to layoff dozens of teachers and increase class sizes to more than 50 students. 'There is no way we could operate under this budget,' the principal
said. 'It is just ridiculous. We are already on bare bones.'" <<link>> 
FIRST LISTEN: Uber strikes back on background check issue with a new radio ad. Here's an excerpt: "You can get old waiting for a cab to come and pick you up. Uber? They make it easier to get where you need to go. But the taxi companies want to change that. They want to restrict UberX and make it harder for thousands of drivers on the South and West sides to earn a living. Right now the giant taxi companies are running ads telling lies about Uber. The truth is... every driver with Uber already goes through a background check. So much for that lie." Listen to the ad here: <<link>> 
FEELING SQUEEZED -- "Marchers take to The 606 Bloomingdale trail to protest gentrification," by Chicago Tribune's Leonor Vivanco: "Dozens of people marched Tuesday along The 606 to draw attention to families and longtime residents feeling squeezed out of their homes because of increasing property taxes and rising rents in Logan Square. Logan Square residents like Jennifer Velazquez are stressed over whether they'll be able to stay as gentrification spreads in the neighborhood. 'We've seen our neighborhood change a lot,' she said, pointing out new condos under construction. Her family has owned their home within a block from the trail for a decade and recently received a letter notifying
them that property taxes were going up by roughly $1,000, she said." <<link>> 
'CIRCUS' AT CITY HALL -- "Emanuel Airbnb plan rollout turns into City Hall circus," by Crain's Greg Hinz: "Mayor Rahm Emanuel today rolled out a proposed compromise plan on how to regulate Airbnb and other home-sharing services that appeared to at least partially ease concerns about 'ghost hotels' and squads of weekend partiers flooding some of the city's more desirable neighborhoods ... North Side and downtown aldermen, whose wards are most impacted by home-sharers, still have problems with the plan. And the entire day morphed into a legislative circus, with Emanuel not producing a written draft of his revised proposal until midday and the committee meeting abruptly being put on hold for
more than two hours, leaving hundreds of Chicagoans who wanted to testify literally waiting without chairs in front of a City Hall elevator bank." <<link>> 
WRIGLEY HOTEL TALKS -- "'Consensus Emerging' Over Wrigley Field Plaza, Rahm Says," by DNAinfo's Ariel Cheung and David Matthews: "Could there be a compromise emerging in the talks over the Wrigley Field plaza? Rahm Emanuel seems to think so. The mayor spoke on the negotiations Tuesday as owners of the Chicago Cubs sparred with Ald. Tom Tunney (44th) and Lakeview neighbors over plaza operations. Emanuel said he expects results from talks he's had with Tunney and the Ricketts family, which owns the Cubs, Wrigley Field and the adjacent lot set to become a hotel." <<link>> 
DIED FIVE DAYS BEFORE DEAL -- "Owner of old main post office was dead when $130M sale closed," by Chicago Tribune's Kim Janssen: "Nobody involved with the $130 million sale of Chicago's old main post office last week would say whether the man who owned it was alive when the deal closed. Turns out, he wasn't. Bill Davies, the eccentric British multimillionaire who owned the vacant 2.5 million-square-foot building that straddles Congress Parkway, died May 7, five days before the sale to New York-based 601W Cos. closed on Thursday, according to a copy of Davies' U.K. death record obtained by the Tribune Tuesday." <<link>> 
JOBS JOBS JOBS -- "Glassdoor Announces New Chicago Office, Plans to Hire 400 Employees," by ChicagoInno's Jim Dallke: "Glassdoor and Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel said Tuesday that the job review site has signed a long-term lease in the Fulton Market District, and plans to bring on more than 350 employees over the next five years. Glassdoor said it has signed a 13-year lease for 1.5 floors at 1330 West Fulton Street, a 51,000 square foot space the company plans to move to by mid to late 2017." <<link>> 
JUMP OR BE PUSHED -- "Police Detective Dante Servin resigns before possible firing over fatal shooting," by Chicago Tribune's Annie Sweeney: "Chicago police Detective Dante Servin has resigned days before hearings were to begin into whether he should be fired for an off-duty 2012 incident in which he fatally shot an innocent 22-year-old woman, the chairman of the Chicago Police Board confirmed Tuesday. Lori Lightfoot said the hearings were canceled after Servin submitted his resignation papers Tuesday. Then-police Superintendent Garry McCarthy announced his decision to fire Servin in November 2015 - just a day before Chicago police Officer Jason Van Dyke was charged with first-degree murder
in the on-duty shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald." <<link>> 
CITY PAYOUTS -- "Chicago Has Racked Up A $9 Million Police Misconduct Tab So Far This Year," by Chicagoist's Aaron Cynic: "Chicago is poised to pay out another $3.2 million in two more lawsuits by families of people shot and killed by police. The City Council Finance Committee approved two settlements Monday involving alleged police misconduct, one of which the officer who shot and killed Laquan McDonald played a minor role ... The City will pay $2.2 million to the family of Emanuel Lopez, who was shot at 42 times by police in 2005 after a car chase on the South Side. Lopez, a 23 year-old janitor on his way to work, allegedly drove off after a car accident and a chase involving five
officers in two cars- one of whom was off duty-ensued. Police alleged that after Lopez was boxed in, he drove at the police and pinned one officer on the ground." <<link>> 
DEMANDING FURTHER REVIEW -- "Downtown alderman warns of Emanuel 'slush fund'," by Chicago Tribune's Hal Dardick: "Decrying the possibility of a new mayoral 'slush fund,' a downtown alderman on Tuesday failed to delay Mayor Rahm Emanuel's plan to shift downtown development funds to struggling neighborhoods, but the battle may not be over. Ald. Brendan Reilly, 42nd, said he backed the concept, but wanted to put off consideration until next month so the proposal could be altered to provide outside spending review and give aldermen more oversight. As written, it could turn into 'a slush fund' controlled by the administration, he said ... It's slated for a full City Council vote Wednesday,
provided Reilly doesn't attempt a procedural maneuver that would get him the delay he seeks." <<link>> 
A LOOK AT RAHM'S POLICE DILEMMA -- "Mayor Emanuel's police balancing act," by Chicago Sun-Times Editorial Board: "The mayor is in a tough spot. He's feeling the pressure - and says he has accepted the challenge - to overhaul a process of police accountability that has lost tremendous credibility, especially among African Americans, in the aftermath of the 2014 fatal shooting Laquan McDonald. Or, to be more accurate, perhaps that credibility had been lost years ago or never existed, and the outpouring of rage after the McDonald shooting made that clear to all. At the same time, in a difficult balancing act, Emanuel is trying to reassure police officers that he has their back as the city
struggles with a rising homicide rate. While there are any number of explanations for a 56 percent jump in homicides over last year, the mayor believes one factor may be low morale among officers, who don't believe they are getting a fair shake from the public or the media." <<link>> 
JUST KIDDING, JUDGE! -- "Mel Reynolds takes it back: 'I am not guilty,'" by Chicago Sun-Times' Jon Seidel: "Mel Reynolds is taking it back. Despite telling a federal judge earlier this month he plans to plead guilty to misdemeanor tax charges, the former congressman now says he has changed his mind. 'I am not guilty of this charge,' Reynolds told U.S. District Judge John Darrah in a hand-written filing entered on the court docket Tuesday. He also wrote that he is 'sorry for any confusion.'" <<link>> 
STATE 
ANGER OVER RAUNER NOMINATION -- "Illinois professors protest Gov. Rauner's board nomination," by the News-Gazette's Julie Wurth: "Gov. Bruce Rauner's nomination of a part-time University of Illinois lecturer to represent college faculty on the Illinois Board of Higher Education is prompting backlash ... Members of the Urbana campus Senate Executive Committee are drafting a letter to the Rauner administration protesting the nomination of John Bambenek, a former Champaign school board member and onetime Republican state Senate candidate. And the Faculty Advisory Council to the IBHE planned to send a memo today expressing 'shock and dismay' at the governor's choice to the state Senate's
Executive Appointments Committee, which must review Bambenek's appointment ... 
"Professors said Monday that Bambenek isn't qualified for the post and criticized Rauner for ignoring the faculty group's recommendations ... Rauner announced Bambenek as his faculty choice on April 15, saying his experience as a lecturer and small business owner would bring a unique perspective to the board ... Faculty members complained that Bambenek is only part-time, teaches one course a year, hasn't been a faculty member very long and doesn't hold a graduate degree, a common requirement for university faculty." <<link>> 
RAUNER: 'BOND BUYERS ... ADVOCATES FOR TAX HIKES' -- "Illinois governor all but summons bond vigilantes," by Reuters' Kevin Allison: "Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner ... challenged a pervasive belief in markets that governments can always just raise taxes to plug deficits ... 'There is an underlying assumption that in the end, you can always raise taxes. Let's not sweat deficits too much, they'll raise taxes eventually' Rauner said. 'Bond buyers end up being advocates for tax hikes. That's not the long-term solution.' Detroit's general obligation bondholders, for example, ultimately agreed to be paid less than par value for their holdings in the city's bankruptcy proceedings. Allowing
over-indebted governments in Illinois to restructure their debts could further shake the market from its complacency. Rauner said bond investors 'might have to be thoughtful and actually do work, actually assess risk and reward.'As a rare U.S. governor with Wall Street experience, Rauner has a unique perspective on debt. For now, he may be focused on his immediate budget predicament, but bond buyers everywhere can consider themselves forewarned." <<link>> 
DO YOU WANT A BUDGET, OR NOT? -- "Leaders, governor agree to outline for budget talks," by The Southern Illinoisan's Dan Petrella: "Illinois' legislative leaders have agreed in principle to budget negotiations that involve both a tax increase and some items from Gov. Bruce Rauner's pro-business, union-weakening 'turnaround agenda.' But anyone expecting Democrats to capitulate to the first-term Republican on issues such as the collective bargaining rights of government employees is likely to be disappointed. After Rauner and the four leaders met Tuesday for about an hour, House Speaker Michael Madigan, D-Chicago, issued a statement saying Rauner's 'continued insistence on passage of his
agenda that hurts the middle class is a clear indication he is not interested in passing and implementing comprehensive, full-year budgets that do not decimate needed services relied upon by the people of Illinois." <<link>> 
DEMS, RAUNER NOT IN SYNC -- "Rauner and leaders meet, but 'progress' is a matter of opinion," by Chicago Sun-Times' Tina Sfondeles: "Democratic statehouse sources say Gov. Bruce Rauner's insistence on creating a working group to talk about his 'Turnaround Agenda' items is a step back from the deemed 'progress' made by two budget working groups." <<link>> 
DMV WON'T LET YOU BE -- "New driver's licenses, state ID cards coming to Illinois soon," by Chicago Sun-Times' Stefano Esposito: "Beginning in late July, when you renew your Illinois driver's license or ID card in the Chicago area, you'll walk out with a hole punched in your old one and a temporary paper replacement. The new license or ID will arrive about 15 business days later in the mail, as part of an effort to combat fraud and identity theft - and to comply with a federal mandate. The new system is set to kick off in Southern Illinois and make its way to the Chicago area by late July, officials said Tuesday." <<link>> 
WHICH SCHOOLS STRUGGLE, WHICH THRIVE UNDER DUELING PLANS -- "Top 10 biggest winners and losers under Rauner's, Manar's Illinois school funding plan," by Reboot's Kevin Hoffman: "Under Manar's plan, wealthier school districts eventually would see their share of state funding cut; districts with a higher percentage of impoverished students would get additional money ... the redistribution of state resources inevitably pits lawmakers who represent wealthy school districts - the majority of which are in Chicago suburbs - against those who represent struggling districts. ... Gov. Bruce Rauner's plan calls for increasing overall funding by $120 million, which would fully fund general state aid to
schools instead of prorating it for the first time in seven years. However, his plan uses the current formula and despite the increase in funding, some districts like Chicago Public Schools and East St. Louis SD 189 would lose funding next fiscal year." <<link>> 
THINKING LONG TERM IN THE SHORT TERM -- "Past Due: Crisis Can Spur Decisions, But Are They Good Decisions?" by NPR's Jamey Dunn: "Ever since the Great Recession of 2008, Illinois state government has been going from one fiscal crisis to the next. While crisis can force action, it can also lead to decisions that may not be best in the long term. NPR Illinois reporter Jamey Dunn sat down with retired University of Illinois political science professor Kent Redfield to talk about how crisis has shaped policy in our state." <<link>> 
DUCKWORTH TRIAL DATE -- A judge presiding over a case involving U.S. Rep. Tammy Duckworth's days at the Illinois Dept. of Veterans Affairs is expected to announce the trial date today. 
TODAY: Workers, faith leaders and union members who are part of the Illinois Working Together coalition are planning to march in Springfield today to "call on Governor Bruce Rauner and his legislative allies to drop their harmful demands and make Illinois work for all." The group says thousands are expected to take part in the march and rally. 
WHERE'S RAHM? Presides over City Council. 
WHERE'S RAUNER? In Carterville and Fairmont City to talk jobs and property taxes. 
** A message from VoteVets Action Fund: Strong prevailing wage laws are like a minimum wage for skilled construction workers. Because veterans work in construction at higher rates than non-veterans, prevailing wage laws enable hundreds of thousands of veterans to put their battle-tested leadership and problem solving skills to work building our communities while providing a good life for their families. Unfortunately, in the last two years, at least eleven states (including Illinois) have considered repealing or weakening their prevailing wage laws, which would hurt our economy and drive thousands of veterans out of their jobs and into poverty. Our nation's heroes deserve better from our
elected officials. Stand with veterans and sign our petition for the strong prevailing wage laws that help our veterans and their families. - <<link>> **
READ more Illinois and Chicago news from POLITICO Illinois: <<link>> 
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
<<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
