OOPS. I SENT THIS A FEW MINUTES AGO WITHOUT ALL OF ITS INFORMATION. HERE IS
THE REAL ASSIGNMENT:
Veteran LEAF members know that once in a while, there is an assignment where
you are supposed to write letters to multiple newspapers. This is one of
them.
A recent United Press International (UPI) article on screening has been
picked up by several newspapers.
I want you to write letters to all the newspapers listed below. It's best if
you send an original letter to each but it's ok to send a duplicate letter
to all.
The article has some true data and some false data. Your assignment is to
write your letter to either strongly agree with a piece of true data or
strongly disagree with a piece of false data. Don't try to make your letter
cover everything; just pick one point and make your viewpoint very clear and
real to the person who will read the letter.
If you need hatting on what to write, click on
www.psychsearch.net/teenscreen.html. Also, here are some important points:
-Child suicide rate declining since early 1990's;  There is no epidemic 
-This whole screening thing is a hoax perpetrated by the
psycho-pharmaceutical industrial complex.
-Many authorities including numerous psychiatric authorities have conducted
numerous studies concluding the decline in child suicide over the past 10 
years is associated with effective gun control.
-There is also data that suicide reduction is due to volunteer (non-psych
manned) suicide hotlines.
-The drugs CAUSE suicides.  FDA Warning.  Florida suicide study - 39% of
suicide cases were taking psych drugs.  TeenScreen say only 1 in 3 or 4 at
risk kids are found and treated.  Then why isn't the suicide rate 
porportionate
-It's a false datum that the treatment is up to the doctor - 90% of them put
the kid on drugs!
-NO studies show effectiveness of ANY drug in treating children.  Why is the
UK banning treatment of kids with Prozac unless talk therapy has been done
first?
The article title varies from paper to paper but I believe the text is the
same. Text at the bottom of this message.
Here are your targets:
1. Lakeland (Florida) Ledger
Title: Debate Over Suicide-Risk Test for Teens Is Passionate
Send your letter to user@domain.com
2. The Record Searchlight (Redding, California)
Title: Screening for teen suicide risk debated - More drugs and less privacy
cause worry
Send your letter to user@domain.com
3. The Washington Post
Suicide-Risk Tests for Teens Debated
Send your letter to user@domain.com
And report compliance by email.
Thank you,
Doyle
