PLEASE FORWARD THIS MESSAGE
In Tarpon Springs, Florida, this Wednesday, May 3rd, at 7pm, Pastor Michael
Davis of Mount Olive Ministries will deliver The Helping Someone Overcome
Addiction Workshop. This is an introductory lecture for new public who are
losing loved ones to drug and alcohol addiction.
Be there, and bring your friends! If you have a friend, neighbor or
co-worker who is a drug user or who has a family member who is, you must
bring them to this lecture.
Location: Tarpon Springs Public Library, 138 E. Lemon St., Tarpon Springs,
FL,
For directions, call (727) 943-4922
Its a very informative talk, delivered on the perfect gradient for a new
person. In this lecture, they will find out what drugs are (believe or not,
most people cannot define the term), why someone becomes addicted and, most
importantly, that something can be done about it.
Pastor Davis is a Christian minister, not a Scientologist. His church serves
an historic area of Tarpon Springs, the Union Academy neighborhood. Once a
proud center of opportunity and learning, it is now ravaged by drugs. Drug
deals take place right down the street from the church. Illiteracy, crime,
and immorality have ruined many lives in this community and drugs are right
at the heart of the problem. Theres not one family that hasnt been touched
by the problem, one way or another. There are more than four hundred
drug-related arrests each month in Tarpon Springs. Seventy-five percent of
cocaine arrests are made in the Union Academy neighborhood. Even members of
the church have sons and daughters going in and out of prison with little
hope for anything better.
Pastor Davis is doing something about it. In his quest for something that
works, he found Narconon, the drug prevention and treatment program using
technology developed by L. Ron Hubbard. He found tools in these programs
that he can use to help the members of the community. He is currently
working full time to open a Narconon center as part of his ministry.
Sincerely,
Doyle Mills, 727-871-0970
user@domain.com
