May 16, 2016
Good morning,=20
Here's your weekly digest of upcoming Business Forward events.=20
Please join us this Thursday, May 11 at 9:30 a.m. for a member briefing =
with U.S. Labor Secretary Thomas Perez on paid leave, apprenticeships, =
on-the-job training, and the future of work.
Business Forward works to make it easier for business leaders from across =
the country to advise Washington on how to create jobs and accelerate the =
economy. Please review the events listed below and consider working with =
us to invite your colleagues, suppliers, or partners in the region who =
might be interested in participating.
Best,
Nadia
MEMBER EVENTS
Thomas Perez on paid leave, apprenticeships, on-the-job training, and the =
future of work
Secretary, U.S. Department of Labor
Member briefing on Thursday, May 19 at 9:30 a.m.
Microsoft, 901 K Street NW, 11th Floor, Washington, DC 20001
-secretary-perez-u-s-department-of-labor
Cecilia Mu=C3=B1oz on criminal justice reform, student loan debt, and =
policies for working families
Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council, =
The White House
Member briefing on Thursday, May 26 at 12:00 p.m.
MWW, 1155 Connecticut Avenue NW, 10th Floor, Washington, DC 20036
h-cecilia-mu-oz-director-of-the-domestic-policy-council
Karen Neuman on information sharing and cybersecurity
Chief Privacy Officer and Chief Freedom of Information Act Officer, U.S. =
Department of Homeland Security
Member briefing on Wednesday, June 8 at 12:00 p.m.
Location TBD
-karen-neuman-u-s-department-of-homeland-security
LOCAL EVENTS
Business Forward works to make it easier for business leaders from across =
the country to advise Washington on how to create jobs and accelerate the =
economy. Please take a look at our "Local Events" listed below to see if =
there are colleagues, suppliers, or partners in the region who you would =
like to participate. Upcoming briefings will be in Tennessee, Texas, =
Louisiana, and Delaware.=20
Probir J. Mehta on international trade=20
Assistant U.S. Trade Representative for Innovation & Intellectual Property
Briefing on Tuesday, May 17
Nashville, TN
Fred P. Hochberg on international trade
Chairman and President, Export-Import Bank of the United States
Briefing on Tuesday, May 24
New Orleans, LA
Phil Karsting on international trade
Administrator, Foreign Agricultural Service, U.S. Department of =
Agriculture
Briefing on Tuesday, May 24
Indianapolis, IN
Steve Haro on international trade
Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs, U.S. =
Department of Commerce
Briefing on Friday, June 3
Wilmington, DE
CONFERENCE CALLS & WEBINARS
Steve Case on entrepreneurship and the future of technology
Author, The Third Wave: An Entrepreneur's Vision of the Future
Conference call on Monday, May 23 at 3:00 p.m. ET / 12:00 p.m. PT
