<x-flowed>
Hi Keith,
After the meeting in Norway, where I presented the Esper stuff as 
described in the extended abstract I sent you, and hearing Bradley's 
follow-up talk on how everybody but him has fucked up in 
reconstructing past NH temperatures over the past 1000 years (this is 
a bit of an overstatement on my part I must admit, but his air of 
papal infallibility is really quite nauseating at times), I have come 
up with an idea that I want you to be involved in.  Consider the 
tentative title:
"Northern Hemisphere Temperatures Over The Past Millennium: Where Are 
The Greatest Uncertainties?"
Authors:  Cook, Briffa, Esper, Osborn, D'Arrigo, Bradley(?), Jones 
(??), Mann (infinite?) - I am afraid the Mike and Phil are too 
personally invested in things now (i.e. the 2003 GRL paper that is 
probably the worst paper Phil has ever been involved in - Bradley 
hates it as well), but I am willing to offer to include them if they 
can contribute without just defending their past work - this is the 
key to having anyone involved. Be honest. Lay it all out on the table 
and don't start by assuming that ANY reconstruction is better than 
any other.
Here are my ideas for the paper in a nutshell (please bear with me):
1) Describe the past work (Mann, Briffa, Jones, Crowley, Esper, yada, 
yada, yada) and their data over-laps.
2) Use the Briffa&Osborn "Blowing Hot And Cold" annually-resolved 
recons (plus Crowley?) (boreholes not included) for comparison 
because they are all scaled identically to the same NH extra-tropics 
temperatures and the Mann version only includes that part of the NH 
(we could include Mann's full NH recon as well, but he would probably 
go ballistic, and also the new Mann&Jones mess?)
3) Characterize the similarities between series using unrotated 
(maybe rotated as well) EOF analysis (correlation for pure 
similarity, covariance for differences in amplitude as well) and 
filtering on the reconstructions - unfiltered, 20yr high-pass, 100-20 
bandpass, 100 lowpass - to find out where the reconstructions are 
most similar and different - use 1st-EOF loadings as a guide, the 
comparisons of the power spectra could also be done I suppose
4) Do these EOF analyses on different time periods to see where they 
differ most, e.g., running 100-year EOF windows on the unfiltered 
data, running 300-year for 20-lp data (something like that anyway), 
and plot the 1st-EOF loadings as a function of time
5) Discuss where the biggest differences lie between reconstructions 
(this will almost certainly occur most in the 100 lowpass data), 
taking into account data overlaps
6) Point out implications concerning the next IPCC assessment and EBM 
forcing experiments that are basically designed to fit the lower 
frequencies - if the greatest uncertainties are in the >100 year 
band, then that is where the greatest uncertainties will be in the 
forcing experiments
7) Publish, retire, and don't leave a forwarding address
Without trying to prejudice this work, but also because of what I 
almost think I know to be the case, the results of this study will 
show that we can probably say a fair bit about <100 year 
extra-tropical NH temperature variability (at least as far as we 
believe the proxy estimates), but honestly know fuck-all about what 
the >100 year variability was like with any certainty (i.e. we know 
with certainty that we know fuck-all).
Of course, none of what I have proposed has addressed the issue of 
seasonality of response. So what I am suggesting is strictly an 
empirical comparison of published 1000 year NH reconstructions 
because many of the same tree-ring proxies get used in both seasonal 
and annual recons anyway. So all I care about is how the recons 
differ and where they differ most in frequency and time without any 
direct consideration of their TRUE association with observed 
temperatures.
I think this is exactly the kind of study that needs to be done 
before the next IPCC assessment. But to give it credibility, it has 
to have a reasonably broad spectrum of authors to avoid looking like 
a biased attack paper, i.e. like Soon and Balliunas.
If you don't want to do it, just say so and I will drop the whole 
idea like a hot potato. I honestly don't want to do it without your 
participation. If you want to be the lead on it, I am fine with that 
too.
Cheers,
Ed
