Mike, Gavin,
As Tim has said Keith is making a good recovery and hopes to be back in soon, gradually
during October and hopefully full time from November.
I talked to him by phone yesterday and sent him and Tom Melvin the threads on CA. As
you're fully aware, trying to figure out what McIntyre has done is going to be difficult.
It would be so much easier if they followed normal procedure and wrote up a comment and
submitted it to a journal. I looked through the threads yesterday trying to make sense of
what he's done. My suspicion is that he's brought in other tree ring series from more
distant sites, some of which may not even be larch. There are two chronologies that have
been used - one called the Polar Urals and one called Yamal. PU is a Schweingruber site
with density as well as ring width. The PU reconstruction is therefore not a chronology,
but a regression based reconstruction from both MXD and TRW. Yamal is just a ring width
series (with lots of sub-fossil material, so much older) from an area some distance (at
least 500km) north of PU. It was developed by Hantemirov and Shiyatov and was poorly
standardized - corridor method. I also don't think McIntyre understands the RCS method even
though he claims to have a program.  The ends and the age structure of the samples are
crucial in all this, but I think he just throws series in.
I totally agree that these attacks (for want of a better word) are getting worse.
Comments on the thread are snide in the extreme, with many saying they see no need to
submit the results to a journal. They have proved Keith has manipulated the data, so job
done.
Hadn't thought of Senate debates. I'd put this down to the build up to Copenhagen,
which is sort of the same.
[1]<<link>>
matching-and-removal-of-natural-variables/
is a complete reworking of Dave Thompson's paper which is in press in J. Climate
(online). Looked at this, but they have made some wrong assumptions, but someone has put a
lot of work into it.
[2]<<link>>
ther-station-siting-failure-moved-station-and-told-nobody/
This one is a complete red herring - nothing wrong with De Bilt measurements. This is what
it is about according to someone at KNMI
The issue you refer to is causing a lot of noise in the Netherlands (even MP's asking
questions to the minister). It seems this is not at all about the observational series
(nothing strange is going on), but more related to the "Law on KNMI" and the division of
tasks between commercial providers and KNMI to be discussed by parliament soon.
Cheers
Phil
