2014NationalBusinessFundingConference
Dear Amy: 
Although we have not had a chance to talk about this event or your company's funding requirements, as I had previously indicated, our correspondence is not part of a bulk mailing being delivered to you by a commercial e-mailing service and has been sent it on the basis of general research that our staff has undertaken on your company based upon its industry sector and stage of operations. Of course, we do not know the growth plans of your company or its need for capital, but are always on the lookout for promising companies that may resonate with our investors. 
If you are all set with your funding needs and existing capital sources, in accordance with the requirement to provide an easy-to-use way to be removed, just reply via return e-mail with a notation to "delete" in the subject line using lower-case type and I’ll be sure to take your e-mail address of user@domain.com off our list of potential Presenter candidates right away. I am sure that the last thing you need are more unwanted e-mails. (Kindly do not use “all caps” or exclamation points in the subject line to ensure that your request is not inadvertently blocked.) As we have recently made some changes to our database management system, my apologies if you have made a prior request which has not yet been processed.
Feature Article in The Opportunist Magazine: We are very proud that our organization was selected by one of the leading business and investment publications, “The Opportunist Magazine”, for the cover story in their December 13th, 2011 issue, for which I was interviewed. If you would like to read this article entitled “Connecting Investors and Entrepreneurs”, just go to <<link>> The article addresses the issues associated with capital raising and chronicles the reasons for the long-standing success of our business funding venues.
Overview and Background: These deal-oriented venues that we have been hosting for almost 14 years are among the best investor-attended events of their kind in the U.S. This will be our 50th consecutive venue, all of which since June of 2001 have been fully-booked. During this period, I believe that we have provided entrepreneurs with greater access to more investors than any other organization in the country. Entrepreneurs see our forums as highly effective and less costly alternative to hiring an investment banker or traveling extensively to raise capital. 
In today’s tight-money environment, many promising businesses, from early to later-stage and middle-market, are finding it difficult to obtain financing as their current banking and private investor relationships are no longer reliable funding sources. If your money raising efforts are not going as quickly as you would like, this forum could be an ideal vehicle to help you accelerate the process. This exclusive “investor-centric” gathering can provide a highly effective and prestigious setting for your company to deliver its vision to a captive audience of well-qualified capital sources. As investors will be attending from throughout the United States, you can think of the upcoming event as a “Road Show” that comes to you. 
If you need to get a round of funding closed during the second half of this year, this unique capital raising forum can provide you with a prestigious national platform to reach over 100 serious early and later stage investors, who have paid to attend and are there to see deals, NOT to be judges, speakers or panelists. Our Registrants will include leading private equity, venture capital firms and Angel groups from throughout the U.S. In addition, a good number of individual Angels and prominent high net worth investors will be joining us. The strong investor response to this and our recent forums would indicate that there is no shortage of interest from investment funds and private investors who are looking for serious opportunities in promising companies. 
Again, If you are all-set with your funding and would prefer not to receive any further information on our investor conferences, kindly let me know by return e-mail and you e-mail address will be promptly deleted. Because this e-mail has not been sent to you commercial e-mailing service, there is no Remove button, but as required, we do provide an easy and convenient way to  be taken of our list by just using the Reply feature and putting “ delete” in the subject line.
For those entrepreneurs who do not make the cut to present at "so-called" free events, then they need to pay to be there - in most cases, from about $700 to $1,500 per person. To present at our events, entrepreneurs are selected based upon their “individual merit” - not graded on a curve and do not need to win a competition based upon some subjective definition of "The Best". I wonder if Cisco Systems, Amazon, Google, e-Bay or Starbucks would have made it through a presenter selection contest. Looking at the number of VCs who turned many of them down, I would say probably not…
WE SIMPLY WANT TO SEE QUALIFIED COMPANIES, BASED UPON REASONABLE CRITERIA, SUCH AS SCALABILITY AND PROPRIETARY ADVANTAGE, WHICH WE BELIEVE ARE LIKELY TO RESONATE WITH A GOOD PERCENTAGE OF OUR INVESTORS AND ARE RUN BY CAPABLE ENTREPRENEURS WHO UNDERSTAND THE PRUDENCE AND WISDOM OF INTELLIGENTLY COMMITTING SOME DOLLARS TO ACCELERATE THEIR CAPITAL RAISING EFFORTS…
New York Private Equity Forums - Guest Registry
Index to Select Current and Prior Conference Guests by Industry Sector Preferences
All or Most Industry Sectors 
Alternative Energy / Cleantech / Environmental Technology 
Advanced Technology / Nano Tech
Agriculture / Construction
Chemicals / Process Industries
Communications / Telecommunications 
