Tom,
A few thoughts
[1]<<link>>
f
This is a link to the longer Thompson et al paper. It isn't yet out in final form - Nov09
maybe?
[2]<<link>>
-matching-and-removal-of-natural-variables/
is a link to wattsupwiththat - not looked through this apart from a quick scan. Dave
Thompson just emailed me this over the weekend and said someone had been busy!  They seemed
to have not fully understood what was done.
Have looked at the plots. I'm told that the HadSST3 paper is fairly near to being
submitted, but I've still yet to see a copy. More SST data have been added for the WW2 and
WW1 periods, but according to John Kennedy they have not made much difference to these
periods.
Here's the two ppts I think I showed in Boulder in June. These were from April 09, so
don't know what these would look like now. SH is on the left and adjustment there seems
larger, for some reason - probably just British ships there?
Maybe I'm misinterpreting what you're saying, but the adjustments won't reduce the 1940s
blip but enhance it. It won't change the 1940-44 period, just raise the 10 years after Aug
45.
I expect MOHC are looking at the NH minus SH series re the aerosols. My view is that a
cooler temps later in the 1950s and 1960s it is easier to explain.
Land warming in the 1940s and late 1930s is mainly high latitude in NH.
One other thing - MOHC are also revising the 1961-90 normals. This will likely have more
effect in the SH.
With the SH around 1910s there is the issue of exposure problems in Australia - see
Neville's paper.
This shouldn't be an issue in NZ - except maybe before 1880, but could be in southern
South America. New work in Spain suggest screens got renewed about 1900, so maybe this
happened in Chile and Argentina, but Mossmann was head of the Argentine NMS so he may have
got them to use Stevenson screens early.
Neville has never been successful getting any OZ funding to sort out pre-1910 temps
everywhere except Qld.
Here's a paper in CC on European exposure problems. There is also one on Spanish series.
Cheers
Phil
