Stella, I want to confirm we received the final payment.ThanksGiancarlo  Da: Giancarlo Russo [mailto:g.russo@hackingteam.it] 
Thank you Stella,let me know if there are still some problem with the wire!Giancarlo  Da: Stella Rehkalt [mailto:user@domain.com] 
Hi, Giancarlo! I was contacted late last night by our bank. There was a problem with matching the IBAN with the bank branch and locating your account. They gave another try yesterday. We had the same problem on our second transfer to H.T. and I reached out to Max to get additional information. Last night I gave our banker your both accounts and asked him to use whichever they can get through. I apologize for the delay. Regards, Stella From: Giancarlo Russo [mailto:g.russo@hackingteam.it] 
Hi Stella, Max forwarded me the email – but as of today we have not received the wire transfer. Please can you check it on your side?RegardsGiancarlo  Da: Massimiliano Luppi [mailto:m.luppi@hackingteam.it] 
Da: Stella Rehkalt [mailto:user@domain.com] 
Hi, Max! Reaching out to you to let you know we completed our third (and last) payment. It is the reminding 140,000 Euros on Invoice #122/2010. Have a nice weekend! Stella From: Massimiliano Luppi [mailto:m.luppi@hackingteam.it] 
Hello Stella,please find attached the bank coordinates  Alex, can you please tell me when we’ll receive the EULA ?   Massimiliano LuppiKey Account Manager  HT srlVia Moscova, 13 I-20121 Milan, ItalyWWW.HACKINGTEAM.ITMobile +39 3666539760Phone +39 02 29060603Fax. +39 02 63118946  This message is a PRIVATE communication. This message contains privileged and confidential information intended only for the use of the addressee(s).If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, disclosure, copying, distribution or use of the information contained in this message is strictly prohibited. If you received this email in error or without authorization, please notify the sender of the delivery error by replying to this message, and then delete it from your system. Da: Stella Rehkalt [mailto:user@domain.com] 
Hi Max! I need to confirm your SWIFT with you. Has it changed since out last payment? Alex asked me to set up another payment but I have been unsuccessful so far. When I search b the bank name it gives me about 30 branches but none of these have XXX at the end. When I do my search by swift, it does not bring up any banks at all. Please confirm the SWIFT and let me know so I can proceed with the payment. Thanks! Stella To ensure compliance with U.S. Treasury rules, unless expressly stated otherwise, any U.S. tax advice contained in this communication (including attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, by the recipient for the purpose of avoiding penalties that may be imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. This email transmission, and any documents, files or previous email messages attached to it may contain confidential information that is legally privileged. If you are not the intended recipient or a person responsible for delivering it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or use of any of the information contained in or attached to this transmission is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. If you have received this transmission in error, please immediately notify the sender. Please destroy the original transmission and its attachments without reading or saving it in any manner.Visit our website at... www.withum.com!To ensure compliance with U.S. Treasury rules, unless expressly stated otherwise, any U.S. tax advice contained in this communication (including attachments) is not intended or written to be used, and cannot be used, by the recipient for the purpose of avoiding penalties that may be imposed under the Internal Revenue Code. This email transmission, and any documents, files or previous email messages attached to it may contain confidential information that is legally privileged. If you are not the intended recipient or a person responsible for delivering it to the intended recipient, you are hereby notified that any disclosure, copying, distribution, or use of any of the information contained in or attached to this transmission is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. If you have received this transmission in error, please immediately notify the sender. Please destroy the original transmission and its attachments without reading or saving it in any manner.Visit our website at... www.withum.com!