05/08/2016 09:17 AM EDT
By Mike Allen (@mikeallen; user@domain.com) and Daniel Lippman (@dlippman; user@domain.com)
Good Sunday morning, and happy Mother's Day! Thank you to the priceless Moms in our life.
TRUMP to George Stephanopoulos on ABC's "This Week," re GOP: "Does it have to be unified? I'm very different than everybody else, perhaps, that's ever run for office. I actually don't think so ... I think it would be better if it were unified ... there would be something good about it. But I don't think it actually has to be unified in the traditional sense." <<link>>
TRUMP to Chuck Todd on "Meet the Press," re Romney: "I believe I won him, or helped him win, five states that he was going to lose in the primaries....He was ungrateful." ... On his tax plan: "Under my proposal, it's the biggest tax cut by far, of any candidate by far. But I'm not under the illusion that that's going to pass." ... On releasing his tax returns: "Remember this, I've already given my financials. And my financials show I'm worth more than $10 billion, by any stretch of the imagination. ... You don't learn much from tax returns."
SUNDAY BEST - SARAH PALIN interviewed by Jake Tapper on CNN's "State of the Union": "I think Paul Ryan is soon to be Cantored. As in Eric Cantor. His political career is over but for a miracle, because he has so disrespected the will of the people. As the leader of the GOP at the convention, certainly he is to remain neutral and for him to already come out and say who he will not support [yet] was not a wise decision of his." ...
TAPPER: "Paul Ryan is facing a challenge in the republican primary in Wisconsin. The primary is coming up August 9th. The candidate ... is Paul Nehlen. Are you planning on supporting his challenger?" PALIN: "I will do whatever I can for Paul Nehlen. This man is a hardworking guy, so in touch with the people." <<link>> 
HILLARY interviewed Friday by John Dickerson in Oakland on CBS' "Face the Nation," re Trump: "Maybe he just doesn't understand that running our government is not the same as making real estate deals. ... I'm not going to run an ugly race. I am going to run a race based on issues. ... I don't really feel like I'm running against Donald Trump. I feel like I'm running for my vision of what our country can be." ... 
DICKERSON: "David Ignatius has a piece in The Washington Post ... where he suggests that Donald Trump is pulling away from U.S. commitments abroad. Is part of this campaign going to be you making the case for why the United States has to have a very active role overseas?" HILLARY: ... "I don't see Donald Trump having any kind of coherent foreign policy or theory of national security." Ignatius <<link>> 
