04/25/2016 07:01 AM EDT
By Mike Allen (@mikeallen; user@domain.com) and Daniel Lippman (@dlippman; user@domain.com)
Good Monday morning. PLAYBOOK CRYSTAL BALL: Behind the scenes, most top Republicans - in Congress, on K Street and beyond - assume a President Hillary Clinton. One veteran of GOP administrations gave us his forecast for QUICK WINS Clinton could achieve under divided government (a Democratic White House and a Republican House, plus a 50-50, Democratic or GOP Senate): "There will be a big push for infrastructure spending and it will succeed, and it's going to be way beyond the normal road-building -- deep into ports, deep into airports, just a massive national effort to build, rebuild, refurbish infrastructure. 
"You bring all the unions in there with you, every state and local government official. Even the Republicans are with you: It's very hard for Republicans to vote against fixing THEIR bridges, roads, airports, ports. And then, because the environmentalists will resist that mightily and lose, then she'll have to give the environmentalists something. So there will be a big environmental agenda, half of which won't go anywhere. 
"I think between that battle and the Supreme Court -- I think she'll get Garland [if she renominates him], but it's going to be a tough fight - that's the first session of Congress. ... [S]he's got some other legislative work that would be big for the tech industry: deal with intellectual property issues, deal with H-1B visa issues, ... but not deal with [comprehensive] immigration reform, not deal with tax reform -- deal with PIECES of things. What you can accomplish in divided government is more tactical." 
FIRST LOOK: Hillary's closing ad for tomorrow's Acela primary (Pennsylvania, Maryland, Connecticut, Delaware, Rhode Island): "Grammy Award-nominated singer Andra Day provided vocals for the ad and wrote the lyrics to the featured music. Day previously performed at an event in March in support of Hillary Clinton at Radio City Music Hall with Elton John and Katy Perry." The 60-second ad, "Love and Kindness," begins today in Philly, Pittsburgh, Baltimore and Hartford markets. YouTube <<link>>
2017 MOOD -- WSJ A1, bottom of page, "Campaign's Populist Tone Rankles America's CEOs," by Nick Timiraos and Ted Mann: "[E]xecutives worry that for now, the rhetoric of the election discussion could weigh on consumer confidence, thwart any immigration overhaul and derail a sweeping 12-nation trade pact, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, that the U.S. struck last year and that many businesses support. ... Rhetoric from Republican candidates has grown more populist and less friendly to big business than at any time in decades. ...
"Clinton might appear to be the most business friendly option given her r&eacute;sum&eacute;, her close relations to some corporate donors and her message of delivering pragmatic results. But Mr. Sanders has pulled her away from centrist positions on financial regulation and trade. ... 'The center has collapsed,' said one technology CEO. 'Sanders and Trump will go away, but their supporters won't.'" <<link>>
YOU'RE INVITED! Kick off White House Correspondents' Weekend at lunchtime this FRIDAY with "Funny or Die"! At our annual Celebrity Edition of Playbook Lunch, I'll talk with Billy Eichner, star of "Billy on the Street" and Hulu's "Difficult People," plus Mike Farah, Funny or Die's president of production and "ambassador of lifestyle." We'll talk about the intersection of comedy and politics, and explore President Obama's unique use of nontraditional media to reach new audiences. Doors open 11:30 a.m. Friday at The Newseum, 555 Pennsylvania Avenue NW. Program begins at noon. #PlaybookLunch RSVP: <<link>>
BREAKING - off embargo at 6 a.m. - "Attorney General Loretta "Lynch to Announce New CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM ACTIONS/Call on State Governors to Remove ID Barriers for Formerly Incarcerated Individuals ... As part of National Reentry Week, Attorney General Lynch today in Philadelphia [will announce] 'Roadmap to Reentry,' the [Justice] Department's latest comprehensive vision to reduce recidivism through reentry reforms at the Federal Bureau of Prisons ... Leadership from across the Administration are traveling and making policy announcement in support of National Reentry Week ... National Reentry Week events are being planned in all 50 states." <<link>>
... Infographic <<link>> 
ROGER STONE, on-again Trump adviser, takes us behind the scenes of Trumpworld, in a conversation with Glenn Thrush for his "Off Message" podcast, "Donald Trump's Donald Trump: Roger Stone, the coiffed kamikaze of Republican politics, is back. And he has one last dirty trick to play." Stone: "[Trump] envisioned a campaign which was all communications ... But the notion that you could combat - let's take Florida - $40 million worth of negative television simply by going on 'Fox and Friends' and responding, I rejected that idea ... He's going to have to better articulate himself on issues that are of concern to women ... 
"Without telling tales out of school, because I have a non-disclosure ... I envisioned a campaign that used the more traditional tools of polling and analytics and targeting and paid media, and a greater depth of organization ... Nobody puts words in Donald's mouth. He is his own conceptualizer. All you can do is present information and let him either assimilate it or not. 
"When you write something for him, keep it short and staccato. He's not going to read a 40-page white paper on the economy; zero chance of that ... Reagan was a big-picture guy. Trump is a big-picture guy. ... I think that obviously he has some challenges going into the general election. But I think they're all soluble." <<link>> ... Transcript <<link>> ... "Off Message" in iTunes <<link>> 
