<x-rich>Dear Colleagues,
I would like to confirm that we will hold the next SRES meeting on 7-8 February
at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in Berkeley, California.  Lynn
Price is the organizer of the meeting.  Below is her contact information.
Ms. Lynn Price 
Energy Analysis Program
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
MS 90-4000, 1 Cyclotron Road
Berkeley, CA 94720
U.S.A.
(001-510) 486-6519
(001-510) 486-6996
e-mail:  lkprice@lbl.gov
The main purpose of the meeting is to review the work progress of the four
modeling groups that have been involved in first quantifications of the
four storylines.  My expectation is that we can harmonize various model
runs into four initial scenarios.  Thus, this will be primarily a modelers'
meeting focusing on technical issues, storyline interpretation and
consistency of first quantifications.  It will not have the character of a
Lead Authors meeting in the strict sense.  It is nevertheless an important
meeting for all modeling groups who have volunteered to quantify
storylines, since this work needs to proceed in order for us to meet our
original timetable and cannot be postponed until the next Lead Authors'
meeting in the spring.
I hope that most of you can attend.  Your input would be
valuable in this early stage of modeling work.  Furthermore, it would be
good to also take the opportunity of this meeting to review the so-called
zero-order-drafts (ZODs).  The deadline for the submission of the final
versions of the ZODs is 15 January (Thursday), so I expect that we will
also have new material to discuss.  
Although I realize that this meeting will take place on rather short
notice and not all of you will be able to obtain the necessary approvals
and visas to attend, I nonetheless believe that it is important at this
stage to hold an informal meeting with the four modeling groups.  I have
funds available for the four lead authors from developing countries:
Matthew Luhanga, Zhou Dadi, Henryk Gaj, and Emilio La Rovere.  As noted
above, a more formal meeting of the complete writing team will be held
sometime in March or April, at which time I hope everyone will be able to
attend.
Please confirm your attendance for the February meeting with me as soon as
possible (this week if you can), so that we can reserve sufficient hotel
space in Berkeley.
Again, for those of you who are working on Zero Order Drafts, please
remember that this Thursday is the deadline for completion.  I look forward to
receiving these.
Best Regards,
Naki
<center>Katalin Kuszko
Environmentally Compatible Energy Strategies
International Institute for | Email: kuszko@iiasa.ac.at
Applied  Systems Analysis  | Phone: +43  2236 807 319
A-2361 Laxenburg, Austria  |   Fax: +43  2236 71313</center>
</x-rich>