**
**
*NSM to March on the State Capitol in Jefferson City, Missouri on Nov. 8th.*
Here are some exceprts from todays news. Several of us fielded radio
interviews today, as well.
*Nazis to March at Capitol*
JEFFERSON CITY - A controversial group plans to demonstrate around the
capitol building in Jefferson City.
This is the same group of neo-Nazis that marched in downtown Columbia last
year.
The Columbia Police Department recently denied permission for members of the
National Socialist Movement to march in Columbia the weekend of the
MU/Kansas State game. So, the group plans to demonstrate on city sidewalks.
After that, the group wants to take its message to the streets around the
capitol for a full hour. The plan, awaiting Jefferson City police approval
by the end of the month, calls for the group to march past the governor's
mansion, then around the capitol. After circling the capitol grounds, the
Nazis will pass by the Supreme Court building.
"Our job is just to make sure that we peacefully manage all of these
different demonstrations that happen, we'll look at what happened last year
and use that as an experience for this year, to make sure that its
adequately manned," City Administrator Steve Rasmussen said. "Quite frankly,
I don't anticipate any difficulty."
The National Socialist group came to Columbia last March. Columbia Police
mobilized dozens of officers for crowd control. Seven people were arrested
in the protest.
*Reported by:* Nick Guillory <user@domain.com>
*Edited by:* Stephanie Stouffer
*Edited by:* Robert Kessler <user@domain.com>
*Published:* Tuesday, September 23, 2008 at 9:35 PM
*Last Updated:* Tuesday, September 23, 2008 at 11:24 PM
channel 17 (abc) tv
*Neo-Nazis Plan to March in Jefferson City
The group has said it will march in Columbia the same day.*
Story written by News Staff
Story posted on September 23, 2008
The Neo-Nazi group that has indicated it will march in Columbia Nov. 8 has
applied for a permit to demostrate in Jefferson City on the same day.
Capt. Doug Shoemaker of the Jefferson City Police Department confirmed that
members of the National Socialist Movement have applied for a parade permit.
He said a decision on whether to approve the permit is likely by next week.
The Columbia Police Department already has denied a request for a similar
permit, citing a security conflict with a scheduled University of Missouri
football game Nov. 8.
NSM members have said they will demonstrate in Columbia regardless.
channel 8 (nbc) tv
*Neo Nazis Change Focus To Capital*
COLUMBIA - The National Socialist Group who announced they wanted to march
in Columbia now wants to march in Jefferson City on the same day.
This is the same group that marched last year in March.
The police department denied their request citing the need for extra police
presence due to the MU Football game against Kansas State. The group said it
will rally on sidewalks regardless and not disturb traffic flow.
The Jefferson City Police Department said they will make a decision in
coming weeks.
: Caroline Zilk
channel 13 (cbs) also did a story, but I could not find it on their website
kbia 91.7 (npr) National Public Radio
*Possible Neo-Nazi March in Jefferson City*
Alex Swoyer
COLUMBIA, MO (2008-09-23) The National Socialist Movement plans to march on
the streets of downtown Columbia on November 8th. The Neo-Nazi group also
wants to make an appearance the same day in Jefferson City. Jefferson City
Police Captain Doug Shoemaker comments on the permit issued by the National
Socialist Movement.
Well at this point the only thing we have received is an application for a
parade permit from the NSM, and that parade permit will be reviewed and we
expect an answer on that permit whether or not it will take place by the end
of the month.
Captain Shoemaker says the Jefferson City Police Department will make
further decisions on how to deal with the NSM if the permit is approved.
