<x-flowed>
Hi Ed,
Just to reiterate one more key point---Superimposing the two series and 
their uncertainties is not the whole story (although it is a definite 
improvement over just showing the two reconstructions on top of each other 
w/ know assessment of uncertainty). However, doing the above still only 
poses the question:
apple +/- [uncertainty in apple]  =?  orange +/- [uncertainty in orange]
As we discussed in a previous email exchange (based on the correlations you 
calculated between instrumental series w/ the trend removed) ,  the two 
reconstructions should probably only share about 60% or so variance in 
common in the best case scenario, where there is no uncertainty at all, 
owing simply to the differing target regions/season...
So we need to be very careful w/ the following statement which you made in 
your previous email:
"If so, this would not mean that the series are not significantly different 
from each
other. One can't dismiss the highly systematic differences at
multi-centennial timescales quite so easily."
I'm not sure you can justify that statement based on sound statistical 
reasoning!
I agree w/ your following statement "Why these differences are there is the 
crux question."
However,I hope the discussion will accurately reflect the fact that the 
leading hypotheses to be rejected in answering that question are 1) random 
uncertainty in the two series owing to differing data quality and sampling, 
etc. can explain the difference  and 2)  systematic differences owing to 
differing target region and seasonality can explain any residual 
differences after (1).
That may be a tough standard to beat, but it *is* the approach that Tom, 
Phil, Keith, and I have all been taking in addressing the issue of whether 
our different reconstructions are or are not inconsistent and the 
conclusion has in general been (see e.g. IPCC which was really a consensus 
of many of us, though admittedly only I was a lead author) that, despite 
notable differences in the low-frequency variability, the different 
reconstructions probably cannot be considered inconsistent given the 
uncertainties and differences in seasonality/spatial sampling. I have a 
hard time understanding why the same standard should not be applied to 
comparisons w/ your current reconstruction?
Does your RCS reconstruction really not fall in the mix of all the other 
reconstructions? Is it truly an outlier w/ respect to Phil's, Tom's, MBH, 
and other existing N. hem reconstructions that are based on different 
seasonality and regional sampling???
We've probably had enough discussion now on this point, so I'll leave it to 
you to discuss the results in the way you see most fit, but I really hope 
you take the above points into account, in fairness to the previous work...
I look forward to seeing the final manuscript in one form or another, in 
any case,
cheers,
mike
