One assignment is writing, one is signing and
forwarding the TeenScreen petition.
First, the petition:
Over 5000 people have spoken out against TeenScreen's
attempt to turn normal kids into lifelong mental
patients!
Want to see the list of names? Click on:
<<link>>
Many of them are directly due to your good work in
signing/forwarding this petition.
But the fight is far from over. We need 10,000 names
at the bare minimum. A better target is 250,000.
If you have not signed it yourself, click on
<<link>>
and sign it right now! If you have already signed and
forwarded it, then take these steps:
0. Sign up all your family members, including kids. No
pets - sorry.
1. Re-send it to everyone that you've sent it to
before.
DO NOT JUST FORWARD THIS EMAIL. YOU HAVE TO CREATE
YOUR OWN.
2. Send it to at least 20 people that you didn't send
it to before. Surely you know somebody new - an
acquaintence who sends joke emails, your co-workers,
relatives.
3. If you have a guest in your house, walk them right
over to the computer, have the read it and sign them
up.
4. If you cannot round up 20+ new addresses, then get
on the net and find a "forum" or "blog" in your town.
If you've never done this, you'll be fascinated. Go to
www.google.com and search for FORUM and YOUR TOWN. I
searched FORUM and POUGHKEEPSIE and got this
<<link>> just
to show you an example. Sign up as a member and start
a new topic about "Parental rights" or "Stop mental
health screening" and tell your neighbors about the
petition.
5. After all that is done, do the writing assignment
below and have a very nice day.
WRITING ASSIGNMENT:
The article is in the Peoria (Illinois) Journal-Star.
You can read it here:
<<link>>
or the text at the bottom of this message.
Write your letter to the editor and send it to
user@domain.com. If your last name ends in C-M or
S-Z, send a copy to the reporter at
user@domain.com.
You'll see that the article is full of false data.
Pick something you strongly disagree with and write
your letter about it. Personally the part that riles
me is "...Jones has worked to install a depression
screening process in local schools..." I hope everyone
doesn't choose that one. I'd like some of you to point
out that it's the treated ones who commit suicide.
And finally, report compliance by email.
Much Love,
Doyle
