<x-flowed>
Dear Chapter 10,
Sorry I missed out on the meeting.
In general I like the proposed Figure and suggested Box contents (and I 
particularly agree that the diversity of downscaling methods and results 
precludes using them as a basis of consolidated regional conclusions).  I 
also agree with others that it looks better with the +- signs 
included.  However, there are 2-3 points that concern me, mostly from the 
perspective of climate scenarios (Chapter 13 - and also Chapter 9).
- it needs to be made very clear if any numbers are cited in the Box (e.g. 
2-6degC for continental warming) that these refer to only *one* forcing 
scenario, namely 1% p.a.
- rather than talk about GHG and SUL I would suggest the more conventional 
nomenclature of GG and GS (the SUL runs are not just SUL forcing of course, 
which might give that impression).
- another very important caveat concerns the GS (SUL) results - these all 
stem from IS92a type aerosol forcing a la IPCC SAR.  Most of the new SRES 
forcings used in TAR and Chapter 9 for example have much smaller or even 
positive SO4 forcing relative to 1990.  In principle this could actually 
switch the sign of the precip. changes in some regions.  There is the 
danger of inconsistency here between Chapter 9 (TAR aerosol effects) and 
Chapter 10 Box (SAR aerosol effects) if this is not carefully 
explained.  For example, in CAM and JJA it appears that aerosols switch the 
P change from 'strongly negative' to being 'uncertain' - but this is only 
for IS92a aerosol forcing: it is not a conclusion that would be valid for 
SRES aerosol forcing!
- as Filippo says, another key uncertainty not represented in the Box is 
forcing uncertainty - again, Chapter 9 present a wide range of Tglobal 
results, part of which relates to prior assumptions about which SRES 
forcing materialises.  We do a disservice if we give the impression in 
Chapter 10 Box that these regional responses are independent of what future 
forcing materialises.  For example, under the lowest SRES forcing (B1) the 
precip. response in some regions would revert back to being very small and 
therefore indistinguishable from noise.
- with regard to temperature and Filippo's comment, Chapter 9 has global 
maps of T change, averaged across the standard set of AOGCM experiments 
(ranges are also shown).  This is in effect the information being 
sought-for by readers of Chapter 10 is it not.  I would have thought that 
back-references in the Box to Figure 9.9 would be sensible.
See you all in Victoria,
Mike
