[cid:54CE5C63-3B5D-4863-951A-D8AEC54812F8]
WEATHER: 63F, Showers
POTUS and the Administration
White House poised to create first monument to gay rights<<<link>>:page/breaking-news-bar>
WASHINGTON POST // JULIET EILPERIN
President Obama is poised to declare the first-ever national monument recognizing the struggle for gay rights, singling out a sliver of green space and part of the surrounding Greenwich Village neighborhood as the birthplace of America's modern gay liberation movement. While most national monuments have highlighted iconic wild landscapes or historic sites from centuries ago, this reflects the country's diversity of terrain and peoples in a different vein: It would be the first national monument anchored by a dive bar, surrounded by a warren of narrow streets that long has been regarded the historic center of gay cultural life in New York. Federal officials, including Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, National Park Service director Jonathan B. Jarvis and Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), will hold a listening session on May 9 to solicit feedback on the proposal. Barring a last-minute complication--city officials are still investigating the history of the land title--Obama is prepared to designate the area part of the National Park Service as soon as next month, which commemorates gay pride.
Feds pushed administrative punishment for leakers<<<link>>>
THE HILL // JULIAN HATTEM
The Obama administration has given orders to pursue administrative punishments against leakers rather than criminal indictments in some cases, indicating that the government's efforts to quiet leakers may have been more complex than previously understood. The administration has been criticized by transparency groups for its record on government leakers, and the fact that President Obama's Justice Department has pursued more charges under the Espionage Act than all of his predecessors combined. But it also appears to have aggressively pursued administrative penalties against leakers, according to a newly unearthed document published on Tuesday. Late in the president's first term, Director of National Intelligence (DNI) James Clapper issued a directive telling federal agencies to "pursue administrative investigations and sanctions against identified leakers wherever appropriate," rather than going through the potentially perilous and drawn-out process of a court proceeding, Clapper's top lawyer said in a secret statement before the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Biden's Iraq hopes crash with reality<<<link>>>
POLITICO // NAHAL TOOSI
Vice President Joe Biden landed in Baghdad last week with his aides optimistically declaring that Iraq's political tumult had "trended in a more stabilizing direction."
But the vice president's plane had barely left Iraqi airspace when the country's political divisions exploded, with hundreds of protesters storming into Baghdad's Green Zone, occupying the fortified area for much of the weekend to demand an end to government corruption.The developments threaten to distract from the fight against the Islamic State, which has grabbed vast swaths of Iraqi territory. At the same time, the situation underscores the limited influence U.S. officials - even one as deeply versed in Iraq as Biden - have over the politics of the country America invaded 13 years ago. Obama administration officials on Monday defended the optimistic overtures from Biden and his aides. They say the onus for resolving the political standoff between Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi and his opponents should rest on the shoulders of Iraqis because any overt U.S. role could lead to a backlash.
Democrats
DWS: 'Of Course' Sanders Is Wrong that the Process Is Rigged<<<link>>>
TOWNHALL // CORTNEY O'BRIEN
At a campaign stop on Monday, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders railed against the Democratic Party's "rigged system" which favors the establishment candidate, Hillary Clinton. "We have won 45 percent of pledged delegates, but only 7 percent of superdelegates," Sanders reminded the crowd, proving the process "makes it hard for insurgent candidacies like ours to win." Democratic National Committee Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz responded to Sanders' rant on Bloomberg Politics' "With All Due Respect," arguing that the senator is mistaken. "Bernie Sanders is wrong because we have had these rules in place since 1984," Wasserman Schultz said. "We have two types of delegates: we have the delegates that are pledged, that ... represent voters based on the outcome, and then we have party leaders and other elected officials who have been in the trenches for a long time who have a role, appropriately so, in choosing our party's nominee." "Because it's never occurred that our party's nominee has been selected by superdelegates."Schultz is unlikely to convince Sanders' supporters she and the other party officials are not biased toward a Clinton nomination. Sanders only has 39 superdelegates to Clinton's 520, despite his winning several primary contests. In other words, he and his supporters are right to be upset.
DCCC Steps Up Attack Over Hastert Donations<<<link>>>
ROLL CALL // LINDSEY MCPHERSON
House Speaker Paul D. Ryan is the latest target of a Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee attack aimed at Republicans who have received money from disgraced former Speaker Dennis Hastert. The DCCC is calling on Ryan to donate to charity the roughly $25,000 in campaign contributions he's received over the years from Hastert, who was sentenced last week to 15 months in federal prison for a hush money scheme he used to cover up years of child molestation. A Ryan spokesman said the Wisconsin Republican has no current plans to release the money donated to his campaign. "Those contributions came in and were spent many years ago," the spokesman said. A few GOP lawmakers have decided to donate money to charity to match the amount of contributions they have received from Hastert in an effort to distance themselves from the former speaker.
Republicans
RNC chairman: Trump is our nominee<<<link>>>
POLITICO // MATTHEW NUSSBAUM
Donald Trump is the presumptive Republican nominee and it is time for the party to rally around him, RNC chairman Reince Priebus declared on Twitter Tuesday night. He sent the tweet just minutes after Sen. Ted Cruz finished his speech announcing he was leaving the race - a speech in which Cruz called for unity, but did not mention Trump's name. Priebus wrote: ".@realDonaldTrump will be presumptive @GOP nominee, we all need to unite and focus on defeating @HillaryClinton #NeverClinton<mailto:.@realDonaldTrump%20will%20be%20presumptive%20@GOP%20nominee,%20we%20all%20need%20to%20unite%20and%20focus%20on%20defeating%20@HillaryClinton%20#NeverClinton>" The campaign of John Kasich, who has not suspended his run for president and Tuesday night said it would continue, disputed Priebus' statement on Twitter and vowed to keep fighting. Kasich strategist John Weaver tweeted: "Appreciate @Reince & his hard work for @GOP, but until someone has 1,237 bound delegates there is no presumptive nominee. CA here we come."
GOP establishment moves from 'Never Trump' to just 'Trump'<<<link>>>
POLITICO // MATTHEW NUSSBAUM
Never Trump is turning out to be not so "never" after all. As Donald Trump trounced Ted Cruz in Indiana and cemented a path to the Republican nomination, some members of the GOP establishment announced that they'd back the billionaire - either now or in the general election. Ed Rollins, who managed Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election campaign, recently joined a pro-Trump super PAC. Former Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal, who lambasted Trump during his own run for the presidency, said Tuesday he would support Trump if he's the nominee. Toby Neugebauer, a major Cruz donor, recently said he, too, would support Trump if he is nominated and declared the so-called Never Trump forces "disgusting." "I'm not ready to roll over and play dead and allow Hillary Clinton to be president," Rollins said. "If he is the nominee I will be voting for him, I will be supporting him," Jindal said, joining other former Trump rivals who, with varying degrees of enthusiasm, have been lining behind the man who has taken the party by storm.
Eric Cantor: I underestimated Trump<<<link>>>
POLITICO // BRIANNA GURCIULLO
Former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor admitted Tuesday that he underestimated Donald Trump as a presidential candidate. "I was predicting way back when that Donald Trump had no chance. I think many of us were," Cantor said on Tuesday in an interview with CNBC. "I've stopped the business of predicting." The former Virginia representative said he can see "a lot of similarities" between his primary loss to Dave Brat in 2014 and Trump's campaign. "Because he does best when it's open primaries, where he gets independents and those who feel disaffected. Same thing that happened in my primary, overwhelmingly," Cantor said. Cantor originally supported Jeb Bush in the 2016 race, and he wouldn't say on Tuesday who he would endorse among the current field. He said he thought the Indiana primary could solidify Trump's bid for the GOP nomination, and that the real estate mogul will clinch it if he gets 1,237 delegates, even if some are unbound. Donald Trump is looking to end Ted Cruz in Indiana, calling in high profile surrogate Bobby Knight, the legendary former Indiana Hoosiers basketball coach, to help him seal the deal.
Limbaugh calls past week 'insanity' and 'lunacy'<<<link>>>
POLITICO // NICK GASS
Whatever the last week of the Republican presidential race has been, Rush Limbaugh can't pick just one epithet-or even settle on a starting point, to describe what has transpired." However you want to characterize the week: The Week of Insanity, The Week of the Crazies, The Week of the Unbelievable. It started... Here we are," Limbaugh told listeners Tuesday. "This is a presidential campaign, a presidential primary campaign. Now, it's hard to pick a starting point when all this lunacy actually began." Nevertheless, Limbaugh pointed to the moment when former House Speaker John Boehner referred to former colleague Ted Cruz as "Lucifer in flesh" and the most "miserable son of a bitch" with whom he has ever had the misfortune to share a workspace. Limbaugh then remarked upon Carly Fiorina falling from a stage in Indiana on Sunday, with Cruz seemingly ignoring the fall of his vice-presidential pick as wife Heidi Cruz and others helped her stand, as well as Donald Trump's chivalric declaration that "even I would have helped her, OK?"
Young beats Stutzman in Indiana Senate GOP primary<<<link>>>
THE HILL // LISA HAGEN
Rep. Todd Young (R-Ind.) is projected to win the Indiana GOP Senate primary, beating back an insurgent challenge from Rep. Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.). The Washington Post and Indianapolis Star called the race shortly after polls closed at 7 p.m. Eastern. Young will face off with former Democratic Rep. Baron Hill in November for retiring Sen. Dan Coats's (R-Ind.) seat. The establishment favorite, Young held off a tough challenge from a lawmaker known for bucking party leaders.  Young was backed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and also had a money edge. Stutzman received support from major Tea Party groups including the Tea Party Express, Club for Growth, FreedomWorks and the Senate Conservatives Fund. He is a founding member of the House Freedom Caucus, and voted against then-Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) before Boehner resigned from his post.
2016 Democrats
Hillary Clinton turns her attention to Donald Trump<<<link>>>
CNN // DAN MERICA AND JEFF ZELENY
Hillary Clinton's campaign, even after losing Indiana to Bernie Sanders, is swiftly steering its attention to Donald Trump in the wake of him effectively seizing the Republican nomination Tuesday night. Clinton is moving to transform her primary organization into a general election powerhouse, taking advantage of the operation she has built during the long Democratic primary. It's this organization, aides say, that could be a critical weapon against Trump, who she's been preparing for weeks to face.
Clinton, DNC turn attacks to 'Dangerous Donald'<<<link>>>
WASHINGTON TIMES // BEN WOLFGANG AND DAVE BOYER
President Obama and Hillary Clinton are sharpening a joint line of attack against Donald Trump, accusing the GOP front-runner of lacking the intellect and temperament to be commander in chief. Mrs. Clinton, who has yet to lock up the Democratic nomination, said Tuesday that Mr. Trump "has given no indication that he understands the gravity of the responsibilities that go with being commander in chief." "At some point, he's going to have to be held to the standard we hold anybody running for president and commander in chief," she said on MSNBC. "What is it you're proposing to do as president and commander in chief? So far we haven't seen any of that. We've seen a lot of rhetoric, we've seen a lot of insults." Her criticism of Mr. Trump's qualifications to be commander in chief came on the same day that the New York real estate mogul cemented his status as the presumptive GOP nominee with a victory in the Indiana primary over Sen. Ted Cruz of Texas. Mrs. Clinton's characterization of Mr. Trump as recklessly unfit to lead also came just hours after Mr. Obama delivered his broadest dig yet at the Republican front-runner, on the same theme. "He is not somebody who, even within the Republican Party, can be considered as equipped to deal with the problems of this office," Mr. Obama told an ABC-affiliate in New Hampshire in an interview.
Independents Are Souring on Hillary Clinton<<<link>>#:TqdmI-iBmPYwdA>
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL // REBECCA BALLHAUS
Democratic presidential front-runner Hillary Clinton faces a mounting challenge among independent voters following months of attacks from rival Bernie Sanders. An April Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll found that Mrs. Clinton's favorability rating among independents had dropped 15 percentage points in the previous four months. That poll found that 20% of independents viewed Mrs. Clinton positively, compared with 62% who viewed her negatively. In January, that same poll found her with a positive rating of 35% and a negative rating of 54%. In January 2015, four months before she launched her presidential campaign, that gap stood at just 4 percentage points-35% positive to 39% negative. The poll also suggested the heated Democratic primary race took a toll on her standing among Democrats. Her positive rating among Democrats dropped to 63% last month from 71% in January, while her negative rating rose six points to 20%. Last April, when she first announced she was running for president, 76% of Democrats viewed her positively while just 8% viewed her negatively.
Buzz grows in Dem circles over Kaine as Clinton VP<<<link>>>
CNN // MANU RAJU AND DEIRDRE WALSH
Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine is emerging as an early favorite to be Hillary Clinton's running mate among major Democratic donors, operatives and congressional Democrats, who argue the Spanish-speaking former governor could be a steady hand in a difficult election environment. As the party establishment begins to shift its attention to a likely general election matchup against Donald Trump, many Democrats are now arguing that Kaine could help balance out the ticket by helping Clinton with independents in swing states and even expand the political map in the fall with his moderate profile, executive experience and foreign policy background. And as a politician from a southern state who has endured tough elections, proponents believe he can handle the grind of a high-profile presidential campaign.
57% of Democrats want Bernie Sanders to stay in the race, polling finds<file:///C:\Users\SavelJ\AppData\Roaming\Microsoft\Word\57%25%20of%20Democrats%20want%20Bernie%20Sanders%20to%20stay%20in%20the%20race,%20polling%20finds>
USA TODAY // DONOVAN SLACK
Even as Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders' path to the Democratic nomination has grown virtually nonexistent, a majority of Democrats want him to stay in the race, according to NBC News/SurveyMonkey polling. Fifty-seven percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning voters say he should stay through the Democratic National Convention in July. As expected among Sanders' supporters, 89% want him to keep going. But notably among Hillary Clinton supporters 28% also want him to stay. The folks over at liberal-leaning MSNBC interpreted the results this way: "This majority support among Democrats for Sanders remaining in the race until the convention may point to signs that Democrats see Sanders as beneficial to Clinton's candidacy primarily by sharpening her message and making her ready for a general election that will likely be very negative."
Sanders surprises Clinton in Indiana<<<link>>>
POLITICO // NICK GASS
Bernie Sanders upset Hillary Clinton in Indiana's Democratic primary Tuesday night, giving his flagging campaign another reason to carry on to Philadelphia even though he has virtually no chance of overtaking Clinton for the nomination. With more than three-quarters of precincts reporting, Sanders led 53 percent to 47 percent. Less than a half hour after results began pouring in, Sanders rallied supporters in Louisville, Kentucky, where voters will head to the polls on May 17. Ticking through his standard stump lines while bashing Clinton for her paid speeches and 2002 vote in favor of invading Iraq, Sanders told a boisterous crowd that their ideas will prevail. "I'll tell you what is extremely exciting for me, and that is that in primary after primary, caucus after caucus, we end up winning the vote of people 45 years of age and younger," Sanders said. "And that is important because it tells me that ideas that we are fighting for are the ideas for the future of America and the future of the Democratic Party."
Bernie Sanders Wins Indiana Primary, Still Faces Uphill Delegate Battle<<<link>>#:YHEMUO1upXYwdA>
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL  // LAURA MECKLER AND COLLEGE MCCAIN NELSON
Sen. Bernie Sanders won Indiana's primary Tuesday, giving his flagging presidential campaign ammunition to press forward and making plain front-runner Hillary Clinton's persistent trouble unifying the Democratic Party. With more than two-thirds of precincts reporting, Mr. Sanders had 53% to Mrs. Clinton's 47%, according to the Associated Press. Even with the win, Mr. Sanders still faces a wide deficit in convention delegates and virtually no chance to close the gap. Mrs. Clinton will pick up a sizable number of Indiana's 83 pledged delegates, given the closeness of the race. Still, the late-in-the-game win by the Vermont senator creates an odd split-screen for the Democrats, with the Clinton campaign increasingly confident of her chances even as Mr. Sanders lays bare her weakness with a large slice of Democrats. Exit polls showed he again beat her among young people, white voters, political independents and people who most value honesty in a candidate.
Sanders jabs Clinton on Iraq vote, Wall Street ties<<<link>>#ixzz47eEJMgaL>
POLITICO // DANIEL STRAUSS
Bernie Sanders attacked Hillary Clinton on Tuesday night, hitting her over her ties to Wall Street and her vote for the Iraq war - even as the result of the two candidates' Indiana battle remained uncertain. Speaking at a Louisville, Kentucky rally as election results showed him leading Clinton by fewer than 3 percentage points (with 34 percent of the vote counted) in Indiana, Sanders included all of his favorite knocks on the former secretary of state. "We have shown the world that we can run a campaign without being dependent on powerful and wealthy special interests," Sanders said. "Secretary Clinton has chosen to raise her funds in a different way. In addition to that, as some of you may know, Secretary Clinton has given a number of speeches to Wall Street financial institutions for $225,000 a speech. Now, $225,000, that is a lot of money and I kind of figure that if you give a speech for that kind of money it must be a brilliant, earth shattering speech."
2016 Republicans
Trump becomes de facto GOP nominee as Cruz exits after crushing Indiana loss<<<link>>>
WASHINGTON POST // PHILIP RUCKER AND ANNE GEARAN
Donald Trump, the celebrity mogul whose brash and unorthodox presidential bid was counted out time and again, became the de facto Republican nominee Tuesday night after a runaway victory in Indiana's primary forced his chief rival, Ted Cruz, to quit the race. Trump overcame a spirited last stand by Cruz - and a patchwork movement of Republicans working desperately to derail him in fear that his polarizing politics could doom the party - to gallop to the nomination. Indiana's results positioned him to easily accumulate the 1,237 delegates required to avert a contested convention.
Donald Trump's Win Just Latest Tremor Shaking GOP<<<link>>#:c3_1OAT-6bYwdA>
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL // GERALD F. SEIB
At the dawn of the current presidential campaign-when Republican leaders were thrilled to have an A-team of reliably conservative candidates on the field, when they had a game plan for a quick and orderly nomination process, and when they were giddy at the prospect of facing a flawed Democratic candidate carrying years' worth of baggage-nobody could have seen the primary-season climax that arrived Tuesday.Donald Trump, who was something between a curiosity and an after-thought at the outset, won the Indiana primary, a victory quickly followed by the withdrawal of his last serious opponent, Sen. Ted Cruz, from the race. Mr. Trump now will be the Republican nominee for president-the most unexpected outcome of a primary contest since Jimmy Carter emerged from obscurity to win the Democratic nomination four decades ago. Mr. Trump reached that milestone on a day of striking ugliness, when he essentially accused Mr. Cruz's father of cavorting with a presidential assassin, and Mr. Cruz in return called Mr. Trump a "pathological liar" a "narcissist" and a "serial philanderer." The Democrats' attack ads for the fall are practically writing themselves.
Donald Trump All but Clinches Nomination With Indiana Win; Cruz Quits<<<link>>>
THE NEW YORK TIMES // JONATHAN MARTIN AND PATRICK HEALY
Donald J. Trump became the presumptive Republican presidential nominee on Tuesday with a landslide win in Indiana that drove his principal opponent, Senator Ted Cruz, from the race and cleared the way for the polarizing, populist outsider to take control of the party. Mr. Cruz had pinned his hopes on Indiana, which seemed to offer one of his best chances to deny Mr. Trump the delegates needed to secure the nomination before the party convention in July. But Mr. Trump, after obliterating his rivals in five states in the Northeast last week, held a strong polling lead in the state, which had 57 delegates up for grabs. His victory put him in a commanding position to clinch the nomination on June 7, when the last Republican contests are held. On the Democratic side, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont rebounded from a string of defeats to win Indiana. The outcome is unlikely to narrow Mr. Sanders's delegate gap with Hillary Clinton, but it does provide a lift for him during a difficult period.
Republican Leaders Face a Decision on Donald Trump<<<link>>#:GiNKw5DR7fYwdA>
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL // BETH REINHARD
Donald Trump's strong win in Indiana drove his chief rival from the race, promising to turn a trickle of support from Republican Party leaders and elected officials into a river. Until now, support for Mr. Trump's campaign from the political establishment hasn't grown nearly as rapidly as have his primary-season popular-vote totals. Only 12 of the 300 Republicans serving in the House and Senate, and three of the 31 Republican governors, have endorsed the New York businessman, despite a monthlong winning streak. But with Mr. Trump's closest competitor, Sen. Ted Cruz, abandoning his campaign, pressure is growing on Republican leaders to back the rank-and-file's overwhelming choice. With Mr. Cruz taking aim at Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton in his speech dropping out of the race Tuesday night, he struck a unifying tone for the party. After Mr. Cruz dropped out, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Reince Priebus, said Mr. Trump will be the presumptive nominee. "We all need to unite and focus on defeating @HillaryClinton #NeverClinton," he posted on Twitter.
Former Reagan campaign manager joins pro-Trump super PAC<<<link>>#ixzz47dV8BVWl>
POLITICO // ALEX INSENSTADT
Ed Rollins, one of the longest-serving Republican presidential campaign strategists, is joining a pro-Donald Trump super PAC. In an interview, Rollins - who managed Ronald Reagan's 1984 campaign and played leading roles for Jack Kemp, Mike Huckabee and Michele Bachmann - said that he would serve as a top strategist for Great America PAC, an outside group that's supporting Trump. Rollins said Trump would be the presumptive nominee if he wins Tuesday's Indiana primary as expected and that it was time for the party to unify around him. Rollins added that he'd grown frustrated with Trump critics who remained on the sidelines. "I'm not ready to roll over and play dead and allow Hillary Clinton to be president," Rollins said. Rollins isn't the only GOP mainstay coming around to Trump. In recent days, Republican veterans including Republican National Committeeman Ron Kaufman and former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman have expressed an openness to him
Trump Wins Indiana Primary, Setting Path to GOP Nod<<<link>>>
NBC NEWS // CARRIE DANN
Donald Trump will win the Indiana Republican presidential primary, NBC News projects, crushing the hopes of GOP foes who waged a frantic campaign to halt his march to the party's nomination. The win sets Trump on a likely path to secure the 1,237 delegates necessary to secure his party's nomination before the convention in Cleveland this summer. Barring a catastrophic collapse in upcoming primary states, Trump is poised to clear the decisive threshold that rivals Texas Sen. Ted Cruz and Ohio Gov. John Kasich pledged to block from his reach. The Indiana contest between the Democrats remains too early to call. But frontrunner Hillary Clinton leads rival Bernie Sanders by a significant number of total votes and delegates nationwide, and the results of Indiana's primary are not expected to change her path to the Democratic nomination. Sanders has pledged to compete until the final primary contests in June.
Trump wins Indiana, looks close to unstoppable<<<link>>>
REUTERS // GINGER GIBSON AND ALANA WISE
Republican front-runner Donald Trump scored an important victory over rival Ted Cruz in Indiana on Tuesday, a win that moves him close to being unstoppable in his march to the party's presidential nomination. The New York billionaire was quickly projected to be the winner by television networks shortly after polling places closed in the Midwestern state. Trump was on track to take well over 50 percent of the vote, eclipsing Cruz, a U.S. senator from Texas. Ohio Governor John Kasich was running a distant third. On the Democratic side, Hillary Clinton was well ahead over Bernie Sanders as votes continued to be counted. Cruz had been counting on a win in Tuesday's primary to slow the New York businessman's progress toward the nomination. But polls in recent days showed Trump opening up a substantial lead in the Midwestern state over the senator, whose brand of Christian conservatism had been expected to have wide appeal in the state.
Trump conquers<<<link>>>
POLITICO // KYLE CHENEY
It was the night Donald Trump broke his enemies.The mogul notched an easy win in Indiana's crucial primary on Tuesday, crushing top rival Ted Cruz and catapulting himself within reach of the Republican presidential nomination. The anti-Trump movement within the Republican Party appeared toothless in its effort to stop him, and the harder Cruz flailed to wound his rival, the stronger Trump seemed to get. The contest was called for Trump as soon as polls closed in Indiana. With 9 percent of precincts reporting, the real estate mogul led with 54.2 percent of the vote, compared to 33.8 percent for Cruz and 9.1 percent for John Kasich. With the decisive win, Trump jumps over the 1,000 mark in the delegate race, and he quickly re-upped his call for Cruz to drop out" "Lyin' Ted Cruz consistently said that he will, and must, win Indiana," he tweeted soon after the outcome became clear, adding, "he should drop out of the race-stop wasting time & money." Cruz now faces the prospect he dreaded most: watching mainstream Republicans rally around Trump as their likely nominee while he increasingly becomes the gadfly who wouldn't quit the race. Though he's given no public signal that he plans to drop out, the pressure on him and his team has ramped up - with the focus on Indiana as a potentially decisive factor.
Donald Trump Wins Indiana in a Crushing Blow to Ted Cruz<<<link>>>
NEW YORK TIMES // JONATHAN MARTIN AND PATRICK HEALY
Donald J. Trump won Indiana's Republican primary on Tuesday, moving him closer to claiming the party's presidential nomination and delivering a devastating blow to Senator Ted Cruz and other Republicans hoping to stop him. Mr. Cruz had pinned his hopes on Indiana, which seemed to offer one of his best chances to deny Mr. Trump the delegates needed to secure the nomination before the party convention in July. But Mr. Trump, after obliterating his rivals in five states in the Northeast last week, held a strong polling lead in the state, which had 57 delegates up for grabs. His victory put him in a commanding position to clinch the nomination on June 7, when the last Republican contests are held. The Democratic race, between Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, was too close to be called as voting came to an end. Mr. Trump's victory was an extraordinary moment in American political history: He is on course to be the first standard-bearer of a party who has not served in elected office since Dwight D. Eisenhower, a five-star general and the commander of Allied Forces in Europe during World War II.
Jindal: I would vote for Trump<<<link>>>
POLITICO // NICK GASS
Though he spent the majority of his campaign for the Republican nomination railing against Donald Trump, former Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal said Tuesday that he will vote for the real estate mogul, reluctantly, if he becomes the nominee. Appearing on CNN, Jindal responded to comments that former Utah Gov. Jon Huntsman made to POLITICO last week in which the 2012 presidential candidate and former U.S. ambassador to China remarked that Trump is better positioned than any other Republican candidate to assemble a coalition across party lines. "Three things. One, I have a tremendous amount of respect for Gov. Huntsman," Jindal said. "Secondly, I think Donald Trump is going to have the hardest time beating Hillary of all the Republican candidate that ran for president." Then again, Trump would still be the best choice, Jindal suggested. "Having said that, third, however, if he is the nominee I will be voting for him, I will be supporting him," he said, explaining that there are "quite simply too many important issues," giving it "a chance" that Trump would get rid of Obamacare.
Cruz's father: Trump's claims are 'ludicrous'<<<link>>>
THE HILL // REBECCA SAVRANSKY
Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz's father on Tuesday called allegations linking him to John F. Kennedy assassin Lee Harvey Oswald "ludicrous.""It's ludicrous, it's ludicrous," he told ABC News. Republican presidential front-runner Donald Trump on Tuesday said Cruz's father was with Oswald before he shot Kennedy.  He was referencing a National Enquirer story that published images of what it said was Rafael Cruz and Oswald passing out pro-Fidel Castro leaflets in 1963 in New Orleans, a few months before the JFK assassination. Cruz shot back at the front-runner after he made the allegations, calling him a "pathological liar" and "utterly amoral." Rafael Cruz said he hadn't seen the report but said that he was never in New Orleans at that time.
Ted Cruz drops out of presidential race<<<link>>>
POLITICO // KATIE CLUECK AND SHANE GOLDMACHER
Ted Cruz dropped out of the presidential race on Tuesday night, ending one of the best-organized campaigns of 2016 after a series of stinging defeats left Donald Trump as the only candidate capable of clinching the nomination outright. Cruz had appeared eager to go all the way to Cleveland to contest the Republican convention, but a string of massive losses in the Northeast and his subsequent defeat in Indiana convinced his team there was no way forward. "From the beginning I've said that I would continue on as long as there was a viable path to victory," Cruz said, with his wife Heidi by his side. "Tonight I'm sorry to say it appears that path has been foreclosed." "With a heavy heart but with boundless optimism for the long-term future of our nation, we are suspending our campaign." From the start, Cruz has premised his candidacy on the idea that 2016 would be an election driven by resentment toward the established GOP order. It was a strategy that looked prescient as Cruz steadily rose in the polls throughout 2015 and broke into the top tier in Iowa in early 2016.
The two words Ted Cruz did not say tonight<<<link>>#ixzz47eL8LFyB>
POLITICO // MATTHEW NUSSBAUM
When Sen. Ted Cruz suspended his campaign Tuesday night, he offered no congratulations to the man who had just vanquished him: Donald Trump. Cruz thanked his family and unofficial running mate Carly Fiorina, but offered nothing for his party's presumed nominee. He did not even acknowledge that, in dropping out, the nomination is all but sealed by a man Cruz earlier Tuesday described as "utterly amoral" and a "pathological liar." The Texas senator did, however, offer a veiled jab at the nominee. "America is kind. We are not boastful or mean-spirited," he said. Shortly before Cruz's announcement, Trump sent out a tweet saying Cruz "went wacko."
Kasich campaign: Indiana results won't alter our plans<<<link>>>
THE HILL // HARPER NEIDIG
John Kasich's presidential campaign announced Tuesday evening that the Ohio governor has no intention of dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination, despite the increasing likelihood that front-runner Donald Trump will secure the nomination before the party's summer convention. "Tonight's results are not going to alter Gov. Kasich's campaign plans," Kasich's chief strategist, John Weaver, said in a statement.  "Our strategy has been and continues to be one that involves winning the nomination at an open convention. The comments from Trump, on the verge of winning in Indiana, heighten the differences between Governor Kasich and his positive, inclusive approach and the disrespectful ramblings from Donald Trump." Trump won the Indiana primary easily Tuesday night, guaranteeing him at least 30 of the state's 57 delegates and putting him within reach of the 1,237 delegates needed to secure the nomination. The Ohio governor and Ted Cruz had reached an agreement recently that Kasich would cede Indiana to Cruz as a last-ditch effort to block Trump from amassing delegates.
Editorials/Op-Eds
The White House's Iraq delusion<<<link>>>
WASHINGTON POST // EDITORIAL BOARD
TWO PERSISTENT failings of U.S. foreign policy have been an overdependence on individual leaders, who frequently fail to deliver on American expectations, and a reluctance to accept that an established status quo can't hold. The Obama administration has committed both those errors in Iraq - and it has done so more than once. In its zeal to withdraw all U.S. troops in time for President Obama's reelection campaign in 2012, the administration threw its weight behind then-Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, with disastrous consequences. Mr. Maliki's Shiite sectarianism fractured the fragile political system and opened the way for the Islamic State. In 2014, having pushed for Mr. Maliki's removal, the administration bet on Haider al-Abadi; now, in its impatience to reduce the Islamic State before Mr. Obama leaves office, it clings to a prime minister who has proved unable to govern the country or reconcile its warring factions. Mr. Abadi's impotence was revealed most dramatically over the weekend, when Shiite supporters of anti-American firebrand Moqtada al-Sadr stormed into Baghdad's walled-off Green Zone and invaded the parliament. Nominally, the protesters were supporting one of Mr. Abadi's aims, to create a new, technocratic cabinet to replace a corrupt system of dividing ministries according to party and sectarian lines. But Mr. Abadi denounced the invasion, which showed him as unable to control either the political insurgents or the established parties that have repeatedly rejected his reform proposals.
It's Donald Trump's Party Now<<<link>>>
THE NEW YORK TIMES // EDITORIAL BOARD
The Republican Party's trek into the darkness took a fateful step in Indiana on Tuesday. The Hoosier State delivered an all-but-crowning victory to Donald Trump, who beat Ted Cruz soundly in the state, sweeping up at least 45 delegates. Shortly after the race was called, Mr. Cruz announced that he was ending his campaign, leaving Gov. John Kasich as the sole rival to Mr. Trump in the Republican contest. On the Democratic side, Bernie Sanders won an unexpected victory over Hillary Clinton, though it was not enough to halt her march to the nomination. That the Never-Trumpers had hoped to fall back on Mr. Cruz, perhaps the most reviled politician in his party, was a measure of their panic about the prospect now before them. With Mr. Trump's success, "I'm watching a 160-year-old political party commit suicide," said Henry Olsen, an elections analyst with the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a Republican think tank. Republicans will all but certainly nominate Mr. Trump, who would be the most volatile and least prepared presidential candidate nominated by a major party in modern times. A man once ridiculed by many prominent Republicans will become the G.O.P. standard-bearer.
