05/25/2016 07:55 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) and Brianna Gurciullo (user@domain.com; @brigurciullo) 
Good Wednesday morning, Illinois. There's buzz in Springfield over another override attempt of the so-called AFSCME arbitration bill, HB580. That's after some 10,000 labor reps rallied in the capital streets last week. Labor is Mike Madigan's fiercest ally in this protracted battle between the speaker and Gov. Bruce Rauner, which is why we're likely to see another vote to override as early as today. That's despite an expectation that it just doesn't have enough support to get it over the goal line. 
With the May 31 budget deadline creeping closer, we've yet to see a true budget compromise materialize, though talks continue. Rauner's office is pushing hard for an agreed budget bill by that deadline and there was new talk Tuesday night about a potential attempt, involving some Democrats, to try to block a Dem-only, unbalanced budget from passing in the House (one that Rauner is already swearing to veto). The thinking is that by blocking a Madigan-drafted budget, both sides would be forced to compromise and schools and social services would be funded on time. It's a longshot to say the least, given that a pre-midnight roll call would need 60 votes to pass and there's 71 Democrats in that
chamber. Even if you subtract common nay Dem votes like Ken Dunkin, Jack Franks and Scott Drury, any rebellion would have to be significant. 
On education, as we've previously reported, Madigan wants schools to open on time and does not intend to hold up K-12 school funding. 
HOW MANY TIMES CAN THE SAME BILL FAIL? -- "Up Next: Union Arbitration Veto Override, Try Two," by Illinois Public Radio's Amanda Vinicky: "Democratic Rep. Emanuel Chris Welch says he plans to call the measure for a vote. 'I think the rally in Springfield last week was very impressive ... and people are hearing that. So we're going to put it on the board and see if the votes are there.' The legislation would require stalled contract talks to be settled by an arbitrator. It's the second time Rauner vetoed the idea. House Democrats' previous attempt to override him fell three votes short. The governor has called it the 'worst' bill he's seen, but unions say Rauner is trying to force a strike
or walk-out." <<link>>  
NOT LIKING IT -- Editorial boards from the Peoria Journal Star to the Daily Herald have railed against the bill. Here's a sampling:   
The Dispatch and The Rock Island Argus: "Before Illinois lawmakers vote whether to override the veto of a bill that's great for AFSCME, but awful for everyone else, we urge them to crunch the numbers." <<link>> 
Daily Herald: "Last year, we stood strong in opposition to this untimely, ill-conceived, taxpayer-offending approach. Nothing has changed for us since then; we hope the same holds true for the legislature. And we hope that those lawmakers who don't have the taxpayers' best interest at heart regarding this bill will justly fear from voters." <<link>> 
The News-Gazette: "No legislators who both understand and care about Illinois' financial future can support this legislation. It's an abomination both from a policy and a financial standpoint." <<link>> 
DEMOCRATIC BENCH NOT DEEP -- "Brown: Democrats' short list of gov candidates is pretty short," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mark Brown: "Sen. Dick Durbin would rather guys like me not write about the possibility of him running for governor against Bruce Rauner in 2018 ... Unfortunately for Democrats, the list of strong contenders is short ... After Lisa Madigan, the list is less obvious. State Treasurer Michael Frerichs was elected in 2014 with Rauner and appears to covet the governor's job, but may not have the stature at this point. Frerichs moved into the treasurer's post from the Illinois Senate, where several of his former colleagues - Daniel Biss, Andy Manar, Kwame Raoul and Heather Steans -
also are believed to be positioning themselves for higher office. All four are among the more cerebral members of the Legislature, but going up against Rauner would be a major step up in weight class for any of them." <<link>> 
ADDING: Whoever runs against Rauner must be prepared to go up against the former private equity investor's bottomless pit of money and the monsoon of opposition research and negative attacks that Rauner is capable of financing. Some insiders are estimating Republicans may spend $100 million in the next gubernatorial campaign. Dems wouldn't have to match that dollar for dollar, but they'd have to raise $60 million to stay competitive. That's why party insiders are looking to persuade big guns like Durbin, and to a lesser degree, Arne Duncan. Lisa Madigan would be a formidable opponent if her father agreed to step down as speaker if she were elected. While Brown notes other rising stars,
they'd have a tough road ahead building name recognition and creating a strong organization while battling the Rauner jabs. 
Brown's kicker seems appropriate here: "Add it all up and what do you get? A lot more speculation about Durbin being the candidate." 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
** A message from Nuclear Matters: Illinois' nuclear energy plants provide 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity and contribute nearly $9 billion to our economy. Without Illinois policymakers' support for the Next Generation Energy Plan, two plants - Clinton and Quad Cities - could be forced to close, jeopardizing these benefits and thousands of jobs. Learn more: NuclearMatters.com ** 
PRO-SANDERS 'PEOPLE'S SUMMIT' COMES TO CHICAGO - From a release: "An all star line up of progressive and community leaders and activists from across the U.S. will gather in Chicago June 17-19 for a People's Summit to, in part, continue the momentum and movement building associated with the ongoing Bernie Sanders campaign. Sen. Sanders is one of the invited speakers to the summit." 
Confirmed speakers and participants include environmental/social activist Naomi Klein, author/activist Dr. Cornel West, Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, former NAACP President Ben Jealous, documentary filmmaker Josh Fox, writer/professor Frances Fox Piven, former Texas Agriculture Commissioner/commentator Jim Hightower, and RoseAnn DeMoro, executive director of National Nurses United, a lead sponsor of the event." <<link>> 
33 PERCENT APPROVAL -- "Rauner's approval rating sinks to record low," by Crain's Greg Hinz: According to the survey by Ogden & Frye for The Insider, a political newsletter, just 33 percent of likely 2016 voters surveyed now approve of the job the Republican governor is doing. A whopping 57 percent disapprove. As recently as January, Rauner's disapproval rating was only 51.6 percent. So, if Ogden & Frye's findings are accurate, Rauner's numbers are headed south. He's particularly weak among independents: Just 30 percent approve of the job he's done so far. Now, Insider publisher David Ormsby is a former aide to House Speaker Mike Madigan, Rauner's bitter foe. And as Rauner spokeswoman
Catherine Kelly says, 'Polls go up and polls go down. Gov. Rauner is 100 percent focused on working with both parties to get a grand compromise.'" <<link>> 
PRO AUTO VOTE GROUP TARGETS HOUSE MEMBERS -- iVote is targeting 21 Illinois House members with digital ads that begin today and run through Friday, urging their support for SB250, state Sen. Andy Manar's Automatic Voter Registration bill. The bill passed the Senate The group plans $50,000 in digital ads over three days, an effort they've joined with the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) Local 880. Senators Sam McCann, Chapin Rose, Sue Rezin, Neil Anderson and Jason Barickman, the 5 Republican senators who voted for the Manar AVR bill in the Illinois Senate. If it advances and is signed into law, Illinois will become the fifth state to have automatic voter registration, behind
California, Oregon, Vermont and West Virginia. 
BE IN THE KNOW-- 10 Illinois web sites you should bookmark, courtesy of Reboot Illinois: <<link>> 
LOCAL FBI AGENTS SHOT IN GANG SWEEP -- "FBI agents wounded in bid to nab reputed gang member; suspect dead in Park Forest," by Chicago Tribune's Jason Meisner, the Daily Southtown's Zak Koeske and freelance reporter Dennis Sullivan: "Two FBI agents serving an arrest warrant suffered non-life-threatening gunshot wounds Tuesday morning at a Park Forest home, and a suspect in the residence was found dead, according to the FBI. The Cook County medical examiner's office identified the dead man as Melvin Toran, 50. Toran was a reputed high-ranking member of the Black P Stone Nation street gang, according to a federal law enforcement source. FBI agents had gone to the home in the south suburb of
Chicago to arrest him on charges of narcotics trafficking, part of a gang sweep involving several other ranking members of the gang."trib.in/20xKmJt 
NEW RULING SET STRICTER EMPLOYER STANDARDS -- "Overtime, 'misconduct' rules a big change in workplace," by the State Journal-Register's Tim Landis: "Changes in federal overtime rules are not the only big shift in the workplace for Illinois employers and employees. An Illinois Supreme Court ruling and a new state law that took effect in January also have set stricter standards for employers who wish to contest unemployment benefits sought by fired workers, employment law specialists told a seminar of The Greater Springfield Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday. Approximately 70 business owners and managers attended the session at the Statehouse Inn in Springfield." 
<<link>> 
A DOG IS IN THIS FIGHT -- "U. of I., lawmaker spar over research on dogs, cats," by Chicago Tribune's Celeste Bott: "Under a measure nicknamed 'the beagle bill,' Sen. Linda Holmes started out wanting to require universities to offer healthy cats and dogs to rescue organizations when they are no longer needed for testing. The Democrat from Aurora, who describes herself as a longtime animal lover and former Humane Society volunteer, argues that since research dogs and cats cost thousands of dollars, taxpayers should be given the chance to adopt the animals." 
"Beagles are the breed of dogs most commonly used for experiments, and the adoption effort is being pushed by the Beagle Freedom Project, a group that has successfully lobbied for similar legislation in Minnesota, Connecticut, Nevada and California. The idea is to prevent research animals from automatically being euthanized. But the legislation has stalled after heated debate at a hearing where universities led by the U. of I. said they already have adoption polices in place." <<link>> 
FROM CHICAGO OR SPRINGFIELD, EQUALLY UNSUCCESSFUL -- "Lightning rod Emanuel leaning against Springfield visit to lobby on CPS funding," by Chicago Tribune's John Byrne and Celeste Bott: "So far, Mayor Rahm Emanuel isn't having his security guards gas up the black SUV or preparing a private plane for takeoff for a quick trip to Springfield as lawmakers try to come up with a school funding plan in the final week of spring session. There's a lot at stake. CPS is looking for hundreds of millions of dollars of state help to keep the district afloat as a huge teachers pension payment is due at the end of June. The mayor said Tuesday that there's more than one way to make the city's case. 
'I've been personally in touch with them, in person, and there's a lot of ways, you can FaceTime people on cellphones, if you're worried about that personal touch, OK?' Emanuel said. 'This weekend I was meeting with legislators from the Chicago area.' ... Though he could claim some measure of credit if a funding bill that helps CPS passes following an eleventh-hour visit, Emanuel could get stuck with an even bigger share of the political blame if he goes there and the legislature then doesn't act on education funding, or passes a bill that doesn't help Chicago the way he wants." <<link>> 
REPUBLICANS GO AFTER MADIGAN BLOCKADE -- "Lawmaker Meetings Continue, But No State Budget," by WTTW's Nick Blumberg: "There was a flurry of late-session activity in the Illinois House and Senate on Tuesday, but still no budget deal. A group of Republican state senators on Tuesday morning repeated Gov. Bruce Rauner's message from the last several days that Democratic House Speaker Michael Madigan is standing in the way of reform and contributing to a dip in Illinois' population. 'Are people really leaving this state because their taxes are too low?' asked state Sen. Dave Syverson (R-Rockford). 'Are they really leaving Illinois because we have too many jobs to offer their children? No. The
governor has offered a series of common-sense reforms. He's been willing to compromise ... But up to date, it's all been blocked from the House." <<link>> 
CITY 
KEEPING REBELLION AT BAY -- "Political operative trying to tame rebellious City Council," by Sun-Times' Fran Spielman: "Three years ago, Anna Valencia was the striking brunette in an Elle Magazine spread on 'The Politics of Power Dressing.' A 28-year-old assistant to Mayor Rahm Emanuel, she was interviewed and photographed in designer clothing, shoes, handbags and jewelry, hand-picked by the magazine. The story was about what to wear to office meetings, fundraisers and other work-related events. Now, Valencia is dressing for success on her own dime, with even higher stakes: as Emanuel's political point-person, otherwise known as director of the Office of Legislative Counsel and Government
Affairs." <<link>> 
DUNCAN DIPS INTO NEW WATERS -- "Arne Duncan Named to Lucas Museum Board of Directors, the former CPS superintendent and U.S. Secretary of Education was named to the museum's board Tuesday," by NBC Ward Room's Tom Schuba: 'Lucas Museum officials announced the appointment of Arne Duncan as a member of its board of directors Tuesday. 'I am delighted to have the opportunity to join the board of this truly exceptional nonprofit museum and to have the opportunity to work with pioneers like George and Mellody,' Duncan said in a statement. 'This museum will inspire the next generation of artists and storytellers.' Duncan, a Chicago native, previously served as Chicago Public Schools superintendent
... and later as U.S. Secretary of Education ... Duncan also worked at Ariel Investments. George Lucas' wife, Mellody Hobson, currently serves as president of the investment company, which is based in Chicago." <<link>> 
THIS SUMMER'S MOVIES IN THE PARK, PLOTTED OUT -- "Here's Every Movie Playing In Chicago Parks This Summer (MAP)," by DNAInfo's Tanveer Ali and David Matthews: "There are 123 different movies playing on big screens in 166 different Chicago parks. The Chicago Park District released its lineup for the Movies in the Parks series, a summer tradition of watching blockbusters and less-known fare alike across neighborhood parks. The series kicks off June 13 at Belmont Harbor with Alfred Hitchcock's 'Vertigo' and ends at Osterman Beach with 'Some Like It Hot' on Labor Day." <<link>> 
WHY SOME RESIDENTS WON'T BE GOING -- "Amid gun violence, West Side residents wary of summer in the park," by CLTV: "Mayor Rahm Emanuel wants everyone to enjoy Chicago's parks this summer, but some residents say they're afraid to use them - especially Lafollette Park in the Austin neighborhood. Amid much pomp and circumstance, Mayor Emanuel announced the fourth annual Night Out in the Parks program at Lafollette Park on the West Side. There will be 1,200 free events across the city during the summer, including five on the West Side. Since the beginning of the year there have been 17 shootings, including four murders, within several blocks of Lafollette Park. One was on the corner of Hirsch
and Laverne ... A Chicago police spokesman said there will be additional park patrols across the city to ensure residents are safe." <<link>> 
ANOTHER REASON -- "At Least 20 Shots Fired On Woodlawn Block As School Lets Out: Witnesses," by DNAInfo's Sam Cholke: "Car windows were shot out and a bullet went through a man's window during a Tuesday afternoon shooting in Woodlawn. According to residents on the block, at least two people fired at least 20 shots at each other at approximately 3:30 p.m. Tuesday near 62nd Street and Kimbark Avenue just as school was about to let out at nearby Carnegie Elementary School. Police had marked at least nine shell casings on Kimbark Avenue at the scene." <<link>> 
BURBS 
MOVEMENT IN TITLE IX COURT BATTLE IN ILLINOIS: by Kimberly Hefling with POLITICO's Morning Education: A May 31 hearing has been scheduled [<<link>>] in federal district court on a motion [<<link>>] to block a settlement between the Education Department and Township High School District 211 in Palatine, Ill., along with implementation of the Obama administration's transgender rights guidance. A motion for a preliminary injunction was filed Monday in the case, which was brought earlier this month by the Christian nonprofit Alliance Defending Freedom on behalf of dozens of parents of students over an agreement [<<link>>] between the
Education Department and district officials that allowed a transgender student who identifies as a girl to use the girls' bathroom. 
- But Monday's motion also took aim at the Obama administration's sweeping guidance that transgender individuals are to enjoy the full spectrum of rights provided under Title IX - the federal law prohibiting sex-based discrimination in schools and school activities - and are to have their sex, and therefore access to bathrooms and locker rooms, defined by their gender identity. "Boys who perceive themselves as girls are still biologically, and anatomically, male," the motion argues. "It violates and humiliates the girls that a boy might see them undressed or that they might see him undressed, and that they have to share such intimate settings as a locker room or restroom. Children are not
guinea pigs, and they should not be subjected to social experimentation to further political agendas as the price for a public education." 
- A Title IX irony? The motion makes arguments against the agreement and the administration's guidance that you'll hear plenty more of in the future - namely, that the Obama administration overstepped its Constitutional authority and has deprived students of their right to privacy. But the plaintiffs' attorneys are also trying to turn the administration's argument for the guidance against itself. "Ironically, the district violates Title IX by doing what DOE says it must do to comply with Title IX," the motion contends. "Granting students access to restrooms and locker rooms based on gender identity creates a hostile environment, and also provides unequal locker room facilities to girls. ...
Put simply, DOE's redefinition of the term 'sex' in Title IX makes it impossible for schools to comply with the statute." 
SNOOTSVILLE -- "Naperville named wealthiest city in the Midwest," by the Daily Herald: "Naperville has been ranked the richest city in the Midwest in a list by personal finance website NerdWallet. The city topped the region -- and came in at No. 19 in the nation -- in the rankings announced Monday. Arlington Heights and Palatine took the third and seventh spots, respectively, in the list of wealthiest Midwestern cities. Bolingbrook, Schaumburg, Aurora and Elgin also made the top 20." <<link>> 
ARGONNE LOOKS TO 'CHANGE THE LANDSCAPE OF ENERGY' -- "Argonne launching first technology incubator for clean energy ideas," by the Daily Herald's Marie Wilson: "Ideas for the clean energy of the future could find a launchpad at a new program at Argonne National Laboratory near Darien. Chain Reaction Innovators is seeking science-minded entrepreneurs with ideas who want to connect with expert researchers, world-class technology and mentorship at the laboratory to develop those ideas. With roughly $3 million from the U.S. Department of Energy and $1 million from Argonne, the program expects to support about a dozen projects that could 'change the landscape of energy,' said Mark Johnson,
director of the U.S. Department of Energy's Advanced Manufacturing office." <<link>> 
OBAMA'S HISTORIC ASIA VISIT: in photos, POLITICO: <<link>>  
Today's event, courtesy of IntelligentEvent: 
"Is Chicago Shrinking?" & "What will the Chicago political landscape be in 2019?"  - Aldertrack - Aldertrack is proud to present two panel discussions that will explore the political and demographic future of Chicago. 1) Is Chicago Shrinking? Panelists include demographer Robert Paral, Urban Planner Richard Wilson, and MPC Director Marisa Novara. 2) CHICAGO POLITICS: 2019 panel include Greg Golder of Resolute Consulting, Brian Sleet of the Kim Foxx campaign, & Businessman Victor Reyes. 
WHERE'S RAHM? No schedule provided. 
WHERE'S RAUNER? No public events.  
** A message from Nuclear Matters: Some of America's existing nuclear energy plants face early closure due to current economic and policy conditions. Providing more than 62% of America's carbon-free electricity, existing, state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon reduction goals.
In Illinois, our nuclear energy plants provide 48 percent of the state's electricity and 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity. The existing nuclear energy plants also contribute nearly $9 billion to the economy and support approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs. 
But today Illinois doesn't properly value these plants for their carbon-free contributions, placing them in economic jeopardy. Without support from Illinois policymakers for the Next Generation Energy Plan to close this gap, two plants - Clinton and Quad Cities - could be forced to close, jeopardizing thousands of jobs along with many other economic and environmental benefits. Learn more at NuclearMatters.com ** 
READ more Illinois and Chicago news from POLITICO Illinois: <<link>> 
WASHINGTON'S RETREAT FROM WATER: In the wake of the lead-poisoning scandal in Flint, Michigan, there's a larger story nobody is discussing--how the US government has been beating a 40-year retreat from funding new water projects, leaving states and cities with a bigger share of the bill. In the latest special edition of The Agenda, POLITICO's policy magazine, Danny Vinik asks why Washington got out of the water business--and finds new ideas to stretch its limited dollars. <<link>> 
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
<<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
