Dear Sir/Maddam,
Please take the time to read the Righteous Power Party document attached.
This document proposes the implementation of a far more superior and more
powerful political system than any the world has ever seen, correcting every
wrong in society and allowing righteous freedom only. Correcting the unfair
distribution of global wealth, multiplying every national average wage,
implementing revolutionary policies for the working life when economy is
unified, preventing the natural economic decline that causes recessions due
to the majority of economic wealth leaving economy into the hands of a
minority of individuals, saving lives and drastically improving the quality
of every human life, tackling and solving every global problem, funding
every charitable cause to completion, preventing crime completely and
ridding the world of every injustice and every evil, implementing policies
for global peace and security, creating a perfect unified world economy with
many surprising positives and rising the wealth of the nations and of the
people who reside within to their full potential. This all done with the
funding and power of global economy serving the people the most that it can,
rightfully and legally owned and controlled by a people-representing world
government. The illegality of modern disassociated and weak economic
ownership is shown with analysis of the origin of modern ownership of all
lands, resources and businesses originating from a previous false royal
claim of ownership of all lands being granted by God. This taking resources
and lands that were shared by our distant ancestors serving all the local
people under public ownership and claiming them by royalty. Ages later royal
greed sold off and handed out (for favour) their economic wealth to
individuals, shaping the modern age. The universal policing laws on receipt
of illegal property will apply and public ownership will be enacted in law.
Ownership by the people is the rightful, natural and true ownership of
economy and will be restored if righteousness is victorious. Third world
debt can also be cancelled in light of these facts when considering the
original loans that caused the debt originated from the false ownership of
illegally claimed royal wealth through God. There is a confidence that every
person will convert to and support this new political system if
knowledgeable about it. The Righteous Power Party invites every life aware
to become activists to rise the nations into Righteous Power Party nations
enriching and saving the world. If you would like to contact me to
coordinated Righteous Power Party activities, to show your support or to
make financial contributions for the establishment of Righteous Power
Parties; email me at: user@domain.com. Thank you, Stephen
Smith, Dublin, Ireland.
