<x-flowed>
Dear Phil,
Sorry about the delay in replying to your email - I've been out of my 
office for a few days.
This is really nasty stuff, and I'm sorry that it's happened to you. The 
irony in this is that you are one of the most careful and thorough 
scientists I know.
Keenan's allegations of research misconduct, although malicious and 
completely unfounded, clearly require some response. The bottom line is 
that there are uncertainties inherent in measuring ANY properties of the 
real-world climate system. You've probably delved deeper than anyone 
else on the planet into uncertainties in observed surface temperature 
records. This would be well worth pointing out to Mr. Keenan. The whole 
tenor of the web-site stuff and Keenan's garbage is that these folks are 
scrupulously careful data analysts, and you are not. They conveniently 
ignore all the pioneering work that you've done on identification of 
inhomogeneities in surface temperature records. The response should 
mention that you've spent much of your scientific career trying to 
quantify the effects of such inhomogeneities, changing spatial coverage, 
etc. on observed estimates of global-scale surface temperature change.
The bottom line here is that observational data are frequently "messy". 
They are not the neat, tidy beasts Mr. Keenan would like them to be. 
This holds not only for surface temperature measurements. It also holds 
- in spades - for measurements of tropospheric temperature from MSU and 
radiosondes, and for measurements of ocean temperatures from XBTs, 
profiling floats, etc. We would like observing systems to be more 
accurate, more stable, and better-suited for monitoring decadal-scale 
changes in climate. You and Kevin and many other are actively working 
towards that goal. The key message here is that, despite uncertainties 
in the surface temperature record - uncertainties which you and others 
in the field are well aware of, and have worked hard to quantify - it is 
now unequivocal that surface temperatures have warmed markedly over the 
past 100 years. Uncertainties in the station histories do not negate 
this basic message.
Hope some of these random musings might be useful, Phil. Let me know if 
there's anything else I can do to help. Will you be at the Hadley Centre 
Science Review Group meeting in May?
With best regards,
Ben
