Kathryn,
I did talk to the Metro yesterday - no idea what they used. Maybe a few will
have read it - before copies are tossed around on the tube!
Added Geoff on this email.
Ag has answered the second question. I may come back to that after
trying to answer the first part.
There are two aspects to the WG work we're doing. The first, which I've mentioned
on a number of occasions, is to prove that the perturbation process used with the WG
works. Colin Harpham sent around a load of plots to Chris/Ag/David/Geoff just before
Christmas. I have a rough draft of a paper on this which I sent to Chris yesterday. This
involves the UKCIP08 WG, but is totally independent of the change factors David is
developing for UKCIP08. This uses some earlier HadRM3 model runs. The WG is fit to
10 grid box series across the UK and then perturbed according to the differences between
the future model integrations and the control runs. We then generate future weather and
show that its characteristics are similar to what HadRM3 got directly. This has used
the same change factors (same variables) but from a different set of RCM runs.
The whole purpose of this exercise is to show that the perturbation process works.
The only way we can test this is to use RCM model runs - because they have future
runs with a big climate change. We can't use past weather data as it doesn't have
enough of a climate change. This is validation of the perturbation process.
We can additionally validate the WG using observational data - which we've done
earlier.
Return to Q2. Ag has said how the model variants get chosen. The model variants
used have a variety of ways of being chosen. Let's say we start with the 50th percentile
for rainfall. We select all model variants between 45 and 55%. Then we want temperature
at the 90th percentile. We then do a second selection of the variants already selected
that have temperature changes between 85 and 95%. As we had initially 10,000
variants, the first selection reduced this to a 1000 (as we chose 10% of them). The
second selection reduced this to 100 (as we've again chosen only 10% of them).
Now with these 100 variants, most users will average the change factors (from David)
across these 100. These average change factors (which will approximately be
at the 50% and 90% value for precipitation and temperature respectively) get passed
to the WG. The WG then simulates 100 runs of 30 years - for the already
pre-selected location (small area) and future period.
There are obviously loads of permutations as we will be allowing users to select all
percentile levels (singly for temperature or precipitation) or jointly for both from
5 to 95 % in steps of 5.
The percentile levels can be chosen based on seasons (4) and years (1). If you
select summer say, users will also get the rest of the year - using the change factors
that
go along with those for the selected model variants.
Another possibility is to select one model variant within the chosen percentile bands
and pass these change factors to the WG.
There are other possibilities, but I think we've limited the choices to these two.
The other possibility was a variant (can't think of a better word here - but not
related to the model variants) to the first. As you have 100 chosen model variants
in this example, you could chose one at random or allow each of the 100 WG
integrations to be based on a different one of the model variants. These generated
sequences will likely have greater variability than that based on the average of the
100 or that based on the single model variant.
I think this may open up a can of worms with Ag when he reads it !
Whichever of these are chosen, the use should still run the WG for
100 30-year sequences.
I think I've made the last bit on model variant selection complicated
and haven't gone back to look at what Ag has written in the User Guidance.
It ought to tell you how the change factors that the WG needs will get selected.
Cheers
Phil
