I need everyone to send on this time!
TeenScreen is really on the run. If we get our message
to enough people right now, we'll win this game.
TeenScreen will completely disappear and the youth of
America can grow up safely without TeenScreen's
intervention and drugs.
In the last week, there was an article on raising
money for suicide programs in the Vallejo (California)
Times-Herald. Then on Friday they published a letter
to the editor from TeenScreen's director, full of
lies, and with the total intention to gain support for
their suppressive cause.
We need to overwhelm this paper with true data.
Do you know why TeenScreen has been able to get so
far? Because there is a vacuum of information on
suicide. If TeenScreen is the only one popping up and
saying 'here's a solution', they'll win.
The assignment:
1. Read Leslie MacGuire's letter at this link or the
text at the bottom of this message:
<<link>>
2. Rip her to shreds.
Write a letter to the editor and send it to
user@domain.com
You can write what you want but I have a suggestion.
-If your last name begins with A-C, L-M, or S-Z, I
want you to state that you are writing in response to
MacGuire's letter. You can say almost anything and you
don't have to be nice. I suggest that you point out
that her letter is just advertising, not public
opinion, that suicide screening has never been shown
to reduce suicide, that TeenScreen just leads to more
drugging with drugs known to cause suicide, and that
the use of TeenScreen takes money and effort away from
programs that actually are proven to work! - like
volunteer suicide hotlines, improving education, drug
abuse prevention programs, religious programs. Hell,
you can throw in "Set a Good Example" contest and "The
Way to Happiness" if you feel like. It will make them
look it up.
-If your last name begins with the other letters, I
suggest that you ignore Leslie and write a letter to
the editor in response to the original article. I
can't deliver you a copy of that article because it's
fee-based. I'm sure it says something about raising
money to prevent suicide and that's all you really
need to know. Your letter mention things like the fact
that mental health screening is bad and just leads to
more psych drug use, that our leaders should find the
true and workable solutions and not just accept any
program that is offered. Also you could bring out the
fact that
suicide is VERY rare, not an epidemic, that there are
other more serious problems like illiteracy and drug
abuse.
3. And report compliance by email.
Thank you!
Doyle
