PLEASE FORWARD THIS MESSAGE
I am a Christian minister with a church in Tarpon Springs, Florida. My
community is in trouble and drugs are at the heart of it. For a long time
I've looked for a solution. Now, I know that something can be done about it.
In his press release, which you can read below, Rev. Heber Jentzsch
challenges community groups to unite in a shoulder-to-shoulder effort to
address the drug problem. I'm doing it. I'm bringing Mr. Hubbard's workable
technology of drug education and rehabilitation into my community.
This February I had the pleasure of meeting with Rev. Jentzsch in Los
Angeles. For a picture, click on
<<link>>
It was good to find out that we share the common purpose to educate the
people of this world about drugs and offer them real hope.
I am asking you to help directly by donating the funds needed to establish a
Narconon in our community center, called The Dream Station of Tarpon
Springs. The faster we work the more lives we can save. The people in our
community have a bleak future until we bring them tools to break the endless
cycle of addiction.
I would like to extend a personal invitation for you to meet with me, and
with my friend Doyle Mills, where we can fully brief you on my plans to use
L. Ron Hubbard?s technology to help restore our community.
I look forward to hearing your ideas and working with you!
Sincerely,
Reverend Michael Davis
Mt. Olive Ministries and The Dream Station of Tarpon Springs
To meet with Reverend Davis and find out how you can with this vital
project, contact Doyle Mills at 727-871-0970 or user@domain.com.
You can also send a donation to: Mt. Olive Ministries, 500 East Oakwood,
Tarpon Springs, FL 34689
Press release:
<<link>>
Community Groups Challenged to Unite in the 2006 Fight Against Drugs
The President of the Church of Scientology International, Rev Heber C.
Jentzsch, is challenging community groups to unite in a massive campaign to
educate people around the world on the real facts about drugs, in the face
of statistics from the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crimes World Drug
Report, showing an estimated 200 million people, or 5% of the worlds
population age 15-64, consume illegal drugs.
(PRWEB) January 2, 2006 -- The President of the Church of Scientology
International, Rev Heber C. Jentzsch, is challenging community groups to
unite in a massive campaign to educate people around the world on the real
facts about drugs, in the face of statistics from the United Nations Office
of Drugs and Crimes World Drug Report, showing an estimated 200 million
people, or 5% of the worlds population age 15-64, consume illegal drugs.
Churches of Scientology internationally have printed and distributed more
than eight million copies of booklets on the subjects of marijuana, ecstasy,
cocaine and heroin. Supplementing this massive information program have been
224,220 drug awareness billboards and posters, over 45 million fliers,
89,000 public awareness events and more than 10,200 newspaper and television
stories promoting a drug-free message - all financed by the Church of
Scientology and its members.
Here in Los Angeles the Church?s youth drug-prevention program, Drug-Free
Marshals, is a welcome sight at Police open houses, national night out
events, and at youth clubs and recreation centers. Drug-Free Marshals have
gotten the word out to 100,000 of youth over the last decade. Humanitarian,
L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology believed, "Save the
child and you save the nation."     The Church has partnered with numerous
groups, including Mothers in Action and recently had the opportunity to
issue the 7-point Drug Free Marshal pledge to lead drug-free lives to the
Marine hockey club of Camp Pendelton. The highly popular Community Day
organized through the Los Angeles County Sheriff?s Clergy Council under
Sheriff Leroy D. Baca is just around the corner, where more than a thousand
youth are expected to take the pledge and receive copies of the booklets
produced by the Church as a public service.   
Pointing to the Church's experience for nearly two decades in community drug
education, Rev. Jentzsch said that many youth and young adults are
misinformed about drugs but that equipping them with the facts can reduce
drug misuse. Scientologists offer use of their drug education booklets to
other groups and organizations because they are effective said Rev.
Jentzsch.
"Many people have stopped taking drugs or decided never to start as a direct
result of reading our booklets or attending one of our public awareness
events but we need to reach everyone," said Rev. Jentzsch. "If community
groups join forces the impact would be enormous," he added. "With a populace
composed of 200 million users and billions more to educate, it's time to
move to an entirely new level."
Over the past year, the Church estimates that close to 50,000,000 people
have been reached with its anti-drug message, with one hundred thousand
children and teenagers sworn-in as Drug-Free Marshals and more than 525,000
anti-drug booklets and 5,600,000 fliers against drugs distributed
internationally.
###
