Mike,
Thanks for the quick response.  Responses to responses follows....
(1)	I tried the composite GHG plus UIUC SUL on Norm's machine, in just
the way you said.  However, the results for the USA seem to be identical
to those using *only* UIUC GHG input.  I'll try again.
(2)	You are right in saying one shouldn't scale GHG patterns by
GHG+SUL dTs.  However, to be strictly consistent one should never allow
GHG patterns to be used alone.  So you are *not* being consistent if you
allow this---which you do.  The point then is to minimize the extent of
the inconsistency.
It is unarguably correct that the global-mean temperature to use 
is the one containing all forcings (i.e., column 6 in *DRIVE.OUT).  The
choice then is what pattern(s) to use.  If we had no SUL information, we
would have to use GHG patterns; as in the original SCENGEN.  Scaling these
with the MAGICC GHG output would give both incorrect patterns and
incorrect global-mean warming.  Scaling with column 6 at least gets the
global-mean warming correct (within MAGICC uncertainties).  You seem to 
have chosen to get *both* things wrong, instead of just the patterns.
I can see some logic in your method; I just think (strongly) that
it is wrong.  At the very least, it will be confusing to the user.
If the user selects only GHG model patterns, then won't they wonder why
the global-mean temperature is inconsistent with MAGICC?  To take an
extreme case, suppose the full dT is 2degC and the GHG-alone dT is 3degC.
Is it better to scale an approximate pattern (i.e., the GHG pattern) by
2degC or 3degC?  In my view, GHG scaled by 2degC would be much closer to
GHG+SUL scaled by 2degC than GHG scaled by 3degC.  Surely the real issue
(given that it is impossible to be entirely consistent in this case) is to
get a result that is as close to the 'right' result as possible.  I feel
quite sure that scaling by column 6 is best on this basis---especially
given that the patterns are much more uncertain than the global-means.  I
think this is absolutely beyond doubt.
The bottom line here is that consistency is impossible if one uses
only GHG patterns.  Column 6 was included deliberately, and after some
thought (along the lines noted above).  
Of course, it is possible to get column 6 results by adding
columns 2, 3, 4 and 5 as they now stand (and as they are in the version
that you have).  However, one cannot do this with the correct *raw*
column 3, 4, and 5 output because of the nonlinear direct forcing effect.
It just happens that, in your version, I 'faked up' column 5 as the
difference between column 6 and the sum of columns 2, 3 and 4.  I did this
simply to get the code working; but (as you now know) I never got around
to fixing it up until now.  In the latest version, column 6 is again equal
to the sum of columns 2, 3, 4 and 5 because I scale columns 3, 4 and 5 to
ensure that this is so.
(3)	Re HadCM2, again it is impossible to be consistent.  What I said
before is that the reason for adding these results is simply to make them
readily available.  I do *not* advocate using them in combination with any
other model results.  It is, I believe, perfectly reasonable to scale 
these results with column 6 data.  Of course, this 'hides' an assumption
about the relative magnitudes of the GHG and SUL components---i.e., it
assumes that the HadCM2 relative magnitudes are okay.  The point of
scaling, however, is to account for other factors that change the
global-mean temperature relative to HadCM2 results, such as different
sensitivities.
I agree with you that it would not be an efficient use of time
splitting the HadCM2 SUL results into GHG and 'aerosol' component
patterns.  The whole point of the sulphate part of SCENGEN is to look at
the influence of different SO2 emissions patterns.  Splitting up HadCM2
wouldn't help here at all.
I also think it would be valueless to hardwire HadCM2 dT results 
into SCENGEN---again, this would defeat the purpose of including these
results.  It would introduce an additional inconsistency; since HadCM2
patterns change with time, it would not be logical to scale the 2071-2100
pattern with (e.g.) 2031-2060 dT.  Of course, you could argue that it is
illogical to scale this pattern with (e.g.) 2031-60 dT from MAGICC; but
this is a different issue that I don't think is worth discussing at this
time.
(4)	Thanks for explaining the UIUC 'other data' problem.  I will ask
Michael whether he can provide full global fields for the other variables,
since it really would be valuable to include them.  If he can give us
these data, could you add them to SCENGEN? (re this, see below)
(5)	I appreciate your problems with Olga and Mike Salmon.  As far as I
can see, incorporating the revised MAG.FOR code into MAGICC/SCENGEN
shouldn't be too difficult.  I can, however, get hold of some money to pay
for some of Mike's time to do other work---perhaps $5000 or so.  Can we
set something up?  The contractual side would be easy---just a matter of
agreeing a brief statement of work, and having CRU send a bill.  If this
is useful and possible, then can you check it out with Mike and Trevor?
Cheers,
Tom
