<x-flowed>
Dear All,
I was away over the weekend at Bowdoin College in Maine, giving a 
talk about the
last 1000 years. There were three others as well on other paleo aspects, 
Richard Alley,
Gary Clow and Wally Broecker !  The latter briefly mentioned to me that 
he had had
something in last Friday's Science, which was getting at the Mann et al. 
series. He
didn't have a copy so we've not seen it here yet.  I tried to get a copy 
of Science on
the bookstand at Logan airport last night - I guess it's not sold that way !
Wally was going on about this 1500 yr cycle of Bond's, which seemed 
pretty flimsy.
I was showing all the various series in a general talk - and I used some 
of the overheads
from the upcoming Science paper. This is due to appear in the issue for 
the last week
of April. It is all accepted now.  I will forward if you'll all abide by 
the Science rules. Both
Wally and Alley seem convinced that the climate of Greenland changed by 
10 C in
the space of 2-3 years at times in the past (Y Dryas etc).  I had long 
talks with both
and they don't seem to have got their heads around spatial scales (local 
changes
and hemispheric). Also they don't seem to realise where we are coming 
from.  He
has a downer on trees (believes all the multiproxy series depend 
exclusively on
trees) but he thinks Ed Cook is a great scientist. The latter is true, 
but he might
just think that because he's at Lamont. I did tell him that Keith's paper 
on the age
banding is out in JGR. I should send him a reprint and maybe ask that great
scientist to go and explain it to him ! Ed's in NZ at the moment. Also 
Wally believes
much more in glacier advances/retreats. I'll get Keith to send him 
Sarah's paper
where the long Tornetrask reconstruction is shown to agree with Storglaciaren
advance/retreat dates from moraine evidence. Also Sarah's been working on 
similar
glaciers in the Swiss Alps with long tree-ring reconstructions.  One 
interesting
thing was he didn't seem to realise that a lot of the tree-ring 
reconstructions use
density. Seemed to think they were all ring widths and there had to be 
moisture
changes we were not accounting for.
It is easy to respond to a Perspectives piece. Some of you did it 
with respect to
one of mine. I'm not sure it will achieve much - it won't come out before 
the paper
in the last week of April.  I need to wait to se what he says. Our paper 
(me, Tim and
Keith) clearly says that the MWP couldn't have been warmer (for the NH 
average)
than the late 20th century.
Another possible reason for not doing anything is that the IPCC 
report will be out
soon. The summary is written in pretty clear language.
The above is my first thoughts, not having read the piece and just 
got off the
flight back.
Best to ignore Woijcek. All he seems to want to do is deflect us into 
responding.
Cheers
Phil
