Amy,
A writer named David Kettle once described government like a vending machine. You have limited choices, the outcomes aren’t always great, and sometimes your candy bar gets stuck in the machine, but if you aren’t happy there really isn’t much you can do.
We’ve all been there, but we can do better. 
First off, government must do more to use the technology at its disposal to connect with citizens. That means creating more opportunities for people to interface with government online and getting better about using social media to create an open dialogue with citizens. It also means pitting government agencies against one another with hard metrics and “Yelp” style applications to keep everyone from the DMV to the VA accountable and in close competition for the best in customer service. 
And that’s just the beginning. Sure, we can put more forms online and make it easier to leave comments with a local agency. That’s easy, and in many places it’s already happening. 
But if we’re really going to demand transparency and openness and change the way government works, then it needs to be more than just a vending machine where you put in your dollar, make a decision and walk away. It needs to be a collaborative, two-way conversation.
That starts with you. It’s petitions, it’s calling your elected officials, it’s making noise when something’s broken and, even better, pointing out something that works and saying ‘hey, we need more of that!’
Here in California, I worked with UC Berkeley to create an online “California Report Card” where citizens can grade the state’s work on important issues and suggest other areas that demand our attention.
It’s a start, and government has to get more engaged and offer more tools for civic engagement. But it’s your voice that will make the difference. 
So get out there! Make some calls, flip your laptop open and fire up those iPhones. We need to hear from you.
Gavin
Paid for by Newsom for California – Lieutenant Governor 2014. FPPC ID# 1333762. 
