When I read articles like this where White people get out in mass numbers to
march for our cause, it always makes me wonder why so many so-called
Nationalists here in the U.S. absolutely downright refuse to get active in
the streets! Some of us will be in the streets in Missouri and Texas this
weekend, anyone in nearby States that considers themselves a Nationalist or
National Socialist should make every effort to attend, no excuses! If the
Russians can put 500 people in the streets and face getting locked up for
doing it, we should be able to do the same, only better yet, we have permits
and will not be arestted. Enough fence sitting my fellow Countrymen, get out
in the streets and get active now while we still have the right to do so! 88
<<link>>
*Russian police detain youths chanting Nazi slogans*
04 Nov 2008 15:24:42 GMT
Source: Reuters
By Conor Sweeney
MOSCOW, Nov 4 (Reuters) - Russian riot police detained around 500
nationalist protesters after an attempted march in Moscow on Tuesday when
some of them gave a Nazi salute and shouted "Heil Hitler".
Disturbances also broke out at other nationalist marches in Russia on a
national holiday following what human rights groups say are growing problems
with racism.
Several hundred youths, some wearing surgical masks and shouting "Russia for
Russians" and "Forward, Russia!", turned up in Moscow for an unauthorised
demonstration organised by the Russian Movement against Illegal Immigration
and another group.
Scuffles broke out when riot police blocked their way and moved in to make
arrests.
"At the moment all protests have ended," a spokesman for Moscow's police,
Viktor Biryukov, told the Interfax news agency.
"Over the day around 500 people have been detained in the city. They were
basically participants in unauthorised protests."
The organisers said on their website www.rusmarsh.org they had tried to
march towards Red Square, next to the Kremlin.
Seventeen people were also arrested after a fight broke out between about 50
youths in a park in Solnechnogorsk, near Moscow, Interfax quoted local
police sources as saying.
It said police confiscated stun guns, knives and bats in the clashes between
local youths and people from the Caucasus, meaning ethnic groups from
regions such as Chechnya and Dagestan or former Soviet republics such as
Georgia and Azerbaijan.
RISE IN XENOPHOBIC ATTACKS
The Moscow Human Rights Bureau reported a rise in xenophobic crimes in the
first 10 months of this year, with 113 people killed and 340 wounded. This
was a 50 percent rise from the 2007 figure, Interfax quoted the Bureau's
director as saying.
Unemployment is low but many Russians oppose temporary work permits for
people from poor former Soviet republics.
In the Siberian city of Novosibirsk, 20 to 30 anti-fascist protesters tried
to block 200 people who walked through the town chanting nationalistic
slogans, Interfax reported.
A similar march was banned by authorities in Vladivostok on Russia's Pacific
Coast, although a rally was sanctioned.
An overnight explosion damaged sleepers and left a small crater a railway
station in southern Moscow, but no one was hurt and rail traffic was not
disrupted, news agencies said.
The Kremlin introduced the Day of People's Unity holiday in 2005. It
celebrates the defeat of Polish invaders in 1612 and replaces a communist
celebration of the 1917 revolution. For most Russians, the day has no
political or social significance. (Editing by Timothy Heritage and Jon
Boyle)
