05/02/2016 07:55 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Monday morning, Illinois. Lawmakers return to Springfield this week as Gov. Bruce Rauner says he's trying to keep "bipartisan momentum" going after a recent emergency, $600 million higher ed funding bill passed. 
POLITICO has learned that there are two budget working groups -- the Ad-Hoc committee and the so-called Budgeteer committee -- separately attempting to hammer out a budget compromise. 
The Ad-Hoc working group, which has met for more than a year, could present its proposal this week. An early blueprint calls for the creation of a services tax and an income tax increase. It would also recommend a level of workers compensation reform, something on Rauner's wish list. During his campaign for governor, Rauner had said he backed a tax on some services. 
The "Budgeteer" panel was quietly assembled by leadership - including the battling Illinois House Speaker Mike Madigan and Rauner - when the leaders met last month. "We have some very good legislators on both sides of the aisle that want to do the right thing," state Rep. Fred Crespo, a Democrat who chairs appropriations for General Services and is part of both working groups, told POLITICO. Read details about budget negotiations: <<link>> 
TODAY: The Budgeteer working group today is to take up discussion on funding for the Department of Human Services, which, despite attempts by some lawmakers, was not part of a recent deal that provided emergency funding for higher education. Social service providers have been warning the state since last year that they are facing a crisis. Some providers have shut down services or cut back. 
IMPACT OF LONG WAIT -- "Local groups serving autistic children, others counting on stopgap state funding plan," by State Journal-News' Dean Olsen: "A Springfield mother of a 4-year-old boy with autism wants to see her son continue therapy that has helped him communicate, reduced his frustration and created hope of success in the classroom someday. The director of a local drug-abuse treatment center doesn't want to see more addicts die waiting for care. Funeral directors throughout the state would like to be paid for serving indigent clients whose families had counted on assistance for final expenses. These Illinoisans and others in line to benefit said they support a stopgap state funding
proposal expected to be considered by the state House this week after receiving unanimous support in the Senate in April." <<link>> 
COUNTDOWN BEGINS -- "StateHouse Insider: Time for lawmakers to hunker down at the Capitol," by GateHouse Media's Doug Finke: "Strap yourselves in, folks, things should start to get even more interesting around the Capitol this week. Both the House and Senate are scheduled to return to Springfield on Tuesday after taking last week off for observance of Passover. It was the last extended break for the two chambers for this spring session. Starting Tuesday, the House and Senate are scheduled (for now anyway) to be in session for 21 of the 29 days left in May. After May 31, legislation still can be passed, but it takes more votes in both chambers to do it. In other words, the tough stuff, like
passing a balanced budget that would likely contain some significant cuts to programs and tax hikes that would be needed to avoid even more drastic cuts, becomes even tougher to approve." <<link>> 
SEEKING A 'GRAND BARGAIN' -- "Rauner 'cautiously optimistic' on 'grand bargain' budget deal," by Chicago Sun-Times' Tina Sfondeles: "Gov. Bruce Rauner on Friday said he shares in the 'anger' of protesters who heckled him over the state budget impasse the day before at the University of Illinois's Urbana campus. But Rauner painted himself as an 'optimist' in the final four weeks of regular session, as the Illinois House and Senate reconvene on Tuesday. 'I've been hopeful in the past. It's taken longer but right now and for awhile, there have been working groups and bipartisan meetings of legislators talking about reforms,' Rauner said. 'No matter what, bringing people together around a grand
bargain, it takes time but I'm cautiously optimistic [that] we're getting there.'" <<link>> 
BABY STEPS -- "A teeny, tiny sign of progress," by The News-Gazette: "Gov. Bruce Rauner last week signed bipartisan legislation providing $600 million in short-term aid for higher education, a move some see as a step toward a long-term resolution of the state's budget standoff. Rauner himself sounded positive, if not effusive, about the possibility of working out a 'grand compromise' with legislative Democrats and settling budget disputes for the balance of the current fiscal year and the new one that starts on July 1. 'My hope is ... to move expeditiously in the next couple of weeks to a grand bargain,' Rauner said." <<link>> 
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Providing 90 percent of Illinois' carbon-free electricity, nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals. Illinois' nuclear energy fleet supports approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contributes nearly $9 billion to the state's economy. Learn more at NuclearMatters.com. ** 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
CHICAGO STATE COULD NOT WAIT -- "Chicago state lays off 300 employees due to budget impasse," by ABC 7: "Chicago State University laid off more than 300 people due to lack of funding during the ongoing state budget impasse. The layoffs were announced Friday and effective immediately. The school has been struggling with budget issues for months. Just last week, state lawmakers approved $20 million in emergency funding, but school officials said was not enough. About 30 percent of the university's budget comes from the state, and the school serves a predominantly minority, low-income student population. CSU's president said in February all 900 employees received notice that layoffs were
imminent, and about 10 percent of staff have been laid off since the beginning of 2016. The university has also cut 20 percent of its administrative costs." <<link>> 
'EVERY ONE OF US IN THIS ROOM, WE'RE DONE' -- "House Speaker Michael Madigan makes rare appearance in Joliet to address labor leaders," by The Herald-News' Lauren Leone-Cross: "Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan ... made a rare appearance Friday night in Joliet to address labor leaders of Will and Grundy counties ... Faced with ballooning pension obligations and a $6.9 billion backlog for the current fiscal year - which started July 1 of last year - Madigan said it's impossible for Illinois to cut its way out of the deficit. 'You take all of that, you add it up. It's very obvious that Illinois is awash in debt' ... Madigan said. Charlie Hanus, president of the Will-Grundy Counties
Central Trades Council, lauded Madigan for his support of union rights ... He also called on labor supporters and union members to retain seats in the House and Senate during the upcoming November election. 'We gotta work our tails off this fall because if we lose the majority and let Rauner buy this election and we lose control, every one of us in this room, we're done. We're done,' Hanus said."<<link>> 
'TIME TO CHANGE THE CHANNEL' -- "Does Acme make a Rauner-catching machine?," by Rich Miller for Crain's: "Madigan's strategy for dealing with his nemesis, Gov. Bruce Rauner, seemed solid at first. He would pit moderate House Republicans against the governor, which would then force Rauner to give up his demands for anti-union economic reforms in exchange for a budget deal ... Last month ... Madigan knew that House Republicans were freaking out about the financial condition of their universities and were prepared to vote to override. Rauner cut a deal shortly before the Passover break to provide 'stopgap' funding to universities and again prevented an insurrection. Kerthunk! Madigan, like
Wile E. Coyote, has repeatedly come up short. Waiting out the House Republicans isn't working, and the state just can't go much longer without a budget. It's time to change the channel." <<link>>  
CITY 
FOP WANTS TO DEEP-SIX MISCONDUCT FILES -- "Feds' probe of CPD stalls move to destroy misconduct files," by Chicago Sun-Times' Andy Grimm: "The federal investigation into the Chicago Police Department has slowed a push by police unions to destroy decades of disciplinary files on officers, a labor arbitrator ruled on Friday. Unions representing rank-and-file officers, as well as sergeants, lieutenants and captains each filed labor grievances after a 2012 court ruling that would have turned over to activists and journalists files on police officer misconduct cases dating back to 1967. The unions complained that their contracts with the city stipulate that records should be 'purged' or
destroyed outright, a stance a pair of labor arbitrators initially had backed." <<link>> 
AIRBNB TO SUBSIDIZE CHICAGO HOMELESS -- "Emanuel backing 4 percent surcharge on Airbnb bills," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mark Brown: "Another week, another homeless initiative from Mayor Rahm Emanuel. Last week, it was a pilot program to find housing for 75 homeless people camped under Lake Shore Drive viaducts. This week, he's signing on to a proposal by Chicago aldermen to double his proposed surcharge on house-sharing businesses like Airbnb, with the proceeds to be used to provide services for the homeless." <<link>> 
TOWER WITH A VISTA --  From City Hall: "Mayor Rahm Emanuel will announce that construction is starting soon on Chicago's third-tallest building - creating more than 2,000 construction jobs and more than 500 permanent jobs. Designed by award-winning architect and Chicago native Jeanne Gang, the 95-storty Vista Tower will break ground this summer along Wacker Drive near Lake Michigan. The Vista Tower will house a 5-star hotel with approximately 200 hotel rooms, more than 400 condominiums and approximately 9,000-square feet of retail space. The building will stand at nearly 1,200 feet tall, spanning over Lower Field Drive. The project will be the largest-ever real estate investment by a
Chinese company in Chicago, and one of the largest in the United States." 
MAYBE PRESS WAS FOLLOWING HIM -- "Rahm Emanuel Runs a Solid 5K," by Chicago Patch's Tim Moran: "Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel participated in the Chicago Police Department's annual Run to Remember 5K Saturday morning and proved faster than more than 90 percent of the other runners. Emanuel clocked in with a final time of 25 minutes, 11 seconds in the 3.1 mile race that took off from Gold Star Families Memorial and Park near Soldier Field. Overall, he finished in 199th place out of 2,535 participants ... At 56 years old, he was the fourth fastest male runner in the 55-59 age bracket, just missing out on a medal by a half minute. Emanuel's age bracket included 68 participants." 
<<link>> 
CHICAGO SMALL BIZ 55TH AMONG 106 -- "The state of small business in Chicago: lackluster," by Chicago Business Journal's Lewis Lazare: "Small businesses do not have an easy time of it in Chicago. ... In a new American City Business Journals data dive on the state of small business in major markets across the United States, Chicago wound up in a lackluster 55th place among a total 106 markets ranked in terms of their respective small business vitality. Chicago placed far behind top-ranked Austin, Texas, and seriously lagged its two comparable rivals, New York City (16th) and Los Angeles (13th)." <<link>> 
'RAMA LAMA DING DONG' IN SONG --"Second City e.t.c.'s 'Red Line' runs over Chicago's sacred cows," by Chicago Tribune's Chris Jones: "The admirably fearless new revue at the Second City e.t.c., "A Red Line Runs Through It," mostly runs right through Mayor Rahm Emanuel, whose outsized smiling visage is such a visual and thematic presence in the show - indeed, it's the backdrop for the best part of the show. A show with more political guts than you'll find anywhere else in town. The cast sings of gunshots. The backdrop grins. Of school closings. It grins some more. Of Laquan McDonald. Still grinning. The cast sings 'Rama Lama Ding Dong.' It sings nothing back but still grins, no doubt feeling
the millennial burn." <<link>> 
WARREN IN CHICAGO WITH DUCKWORTH -- "Duckworth seeks boost from campaign stop with Sen. Elizabeth Warren," by Chicago Tribune's Rick Pearson: "Democratic U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren delivered a staunch defense of government Friday, accusing Republicans of pushing administrative cuts that impair delivery of services and make people most in need lose faith in Washington. Speaking to a group of seniors in Chicago's Lakeview East neighborhood along with Rep. Tammy Duckworth, a Democratic Senate candidate, Warren said a public demoralized about its government only points to the need for people to vote ... 'We have government because it helps us all build a world where we can all do better. We
aren't going to do as well one at a time.'" <<link>> 
A FINGER FOR YOUR CHICKEN FINGER, PLEASE -- "Is it safe to use students' thumbprints to pay for lunch?" by Daily Herald's Bob Susnjara: "Fifth-grader Quinlan Bobeczko didn't fumble around for a meal card, a smartphone app or cash when it came time to pay for his lunch at Harrison Street Elementary School.Like the other children at the Geneva school, Quinlan stepped up to a cashier and placed his thumb on a scanning device smaller than a television remote control matched to a prepaid lunch account -- and off he went to get his chicken tenders. 'It's good, because you don't have to carry your own money or anything like that,' Quinlan said shortly after receiving his meal in the bustling
gymnasium that doubles as a lunchroom. 'It's just there. Your thumb is easy, because you just have to put your thumb on (the device).'" <<link>> 
'FRUMPY,' 'BORING,' 'SERIAL CHILD MOLESTER' -- "The Many Faces of Dennis Hastert," by New York Times' Frank Bruni: "For a lesson on the riddles of human nature, look no further than Dennis Hastert. Go back to early 1999, when he became the speaker of the House of Representatives. Revisit the reason he got that job. His Republican colleagues were sick of provocateurs, had been burned by scandal and wanted a reprieve - an antidote, even. Hastert fit the bill. In their view he wasn't merely above reproach. He was too frumpy and flat-out boring to be acquainted with reproach. 'Like an old shoe' was how one prominent Republican described him to a reporter at the time. In the closet with that old
shoe were skeletons, but no one around him knew it or could have guessed which kind." <<link>> 
WHEN REPORTERS FIGHT, WHO TAKES NOTES? -- "White House Correspondents' Dinner: Fight breaks out at afterparty between Fox, Huffington Post reporters," by The Washington Post's Emily Heil: "In the early-morning hours of Sunday, a scuffle broke out between Fox News correspondent Jesse Watters and Ryan Grim, the Huffington Post's Washington bureau chief. The fight - unusual among a tuxedo-clad crowd more used to venting their differences with Twitter snarks ... Grim realized who Watters was and recalled a beef he had with the 'O'Reilly Factor' correspondent that dated back to 2009, when Watters, known as an 'ambush journalist,' had engineered an on-camera confrontation of writer Amanda Terkel,
now a HuffPo colleague of Grim. Terkel's account of the incident was headlined 'I Was Followed, Harassed, And Ambushed By Bill O'Reilly's Producer.' Grim decided to give Watters a taste of his own medicine, whipping out his camera phone and filming him. Watters didn't take well to this, eventually snatching the phone away from Grim and putting it in his pocket. Grim set out to retrieve it, and a scuffle ensued." <<link>> 
OBAMA HARVARD TRADITION LIVES ON -- "Malia Obama to attend Harvard," by POLITICO's Kristen East: "It's National College Decision Day, and Malia Obama has made her decision. President Barack Obama's eldest daughter will be attending Harvard University in the fall of 2017, opting to take a gap year before beginning her studies, the White House announced Sunday. Malia Obama would graduate in 2021 if she takes the traditional four-year route. She is set to graduate from Sidwell Friends in D.C. in June; Obama's younger daughter, Sasha, is a freshman at the school. Malia's parents have discussed the college search often, and Malia Obama appears to be following in their footsteps: Both the
president and first lady Michelle Obama attended Harvard Law School." <<link>> 
THEY GOT IT RUFF -- Employers in the UK are now offering paid 'paw-ternity' leave for new pet owners <<link>> 
WHAT'S ALL THIS LEICESTER TALK ABOUT? -- "Leicester must wait to clinch improbable Premier League title, but city feels it coming" - The Washington Post: <<link>>  
EVENTS courtesy of IntelligentEvent @Chi_IntellEvent 
TODAY:  
Ban the Box, Criminal Records, and Statistical Discrimination: A Field Experiment - Becker Friedman Institute - Recently, many cities and states have passed "Ban-the-Box" (BTB) policies, which restrict employers from asking about applicants' criminal histories on job application forms. Does that practice leave employers at risk? Amanda Agan of Princeton investigates BTB's effects on discrimination in initial employment decisions as well as the effects of race and criminal records on employer callback rates. 
Black and White Justice - Institute of Politics - In some cities, Chicago most notably, crime is up, with some attributing it to officers stepping back for fear of becoming the next infamous YouTube star. We'll dissect police culture to understand how and where it collides with the culture on the streets, creating dangerous conditions for both police and citizens. 
Women in Charge: How Politics is Being Transformed - Institute of Politics - Jay Newton-Small of Time Magazine and author of BROAD INFLUENCE: How Women Are Changing the Way America Works argues that when women reach between 20 and 30 percent of any organization they fundamentally change how it operates. She'll also discuss the impact of the women's vote in the 2016 races. 
WHERE'S RAHM? In morning, announcing Vista Tower construction to soon begin. 
WHERE'S RAUNER? At Obed & Issac's Microbrewery in Springfield proclaiming National Small Business Week in Illinois. 
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Some of America's existing nuclear energy plants face early closure due to current economic and policy conditions. Providing more than 62% of America's carbon-free electricity, existing, state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals.
In Illinois, nuclear energy plants provide 48 percent of the state's electricity and 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity. The existing nuclear energy plants in Illinois also support approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contribute $9 billion to the state's economy.
If we want to keep Illinois working, we need policies that will keep Illinois' state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants working for all of us. Join us at NuclearMatters.com. ** 
FOR MORE political and policy news from POLITICO Illinois, visit: <<link>> 
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
<<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 
THE MEDIA ISSUE- POLITICO MAGAZINE ONLINE TODAY: As Washington prepares for the final White House Correspondents Dinner of the Obama Administration, POLITICO Magazine's MEDIA ISSUE takes a look at how the press has contributed to the rise of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump. Jack Shafer, Susan Mulcahy, Michael Grunwald, Michael Crowley and Campbell Brown are just some of the contributors to this must-read issue. Read here-<<link>> 
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
