Adrian,
Emails to Kate yesterday were returned by the ECMWF server (for your email
address) but not for Dick's?
I also found the two emails you sent last night in my spam list. No idea why
this is happening. I found some other semi-important emails in my spam as well!
Anyway - hope you get this email!
All three reviewers are positive, which is good, but there is still a lot of to do as
you say.
Here are some initial thoughts. Before I begin - it seems as though Rev 2 comments have
ended abruptly during #13. I'd suggest you ask if there is any more?
Rev 1
I would have thought that the second point (larger trends in full ERA-INTERIM fields) was
just an interesting aside, and not as important as the RH decline.
I'll need to go back to see if sections 5 and 6 can be reordered/restructured?
Both Reviewers 1 and 2 (they appear to be Kevin and Aiguo, but odd to have two people
who only live a few rooms apart!) make quite a few statements about GPCC. We're
doing updating work on the higher resolution CRU-TS (0.5 by 0.5 degree lat/long)
datasets. We're doing comparisons with GPCC and for the Giorgi type regions (as in
Fig 3.14 of Ch 3 of AR4) and the agreement is amazingly good. Maybe all you
need to point to is this Figure and the previous one (Fig 3.12) to say that for land
regions at the continental scale, it doesn't matter which datasets are used (for the
period
from the 1970s). The key thing is that they just use gauges, with no satellites.
My view is that bringing in satellites as in CMAP and GPCP products can lead to
problems, and some circularity with ERA results - as you'll be using some of the same
satellite data products.  The point to emphasize for precip is that GPCC is totally
independent from any ERA (40 or Interim) input.
I've come across these issues about GPCC before. I've been haranguing Bruno Rudolf
and now Tobias Fuchs of GPCC to write something up for a number of years within AOPC!
I think their QC is likely the best of all the centres, but they will continue to get
these
doubts if they don't write anything up. They should at least explain how they do their
interpolation - it can certainly be done better.
GPCC is using so much more data that is has to be better than any other product.
They can't release the raw station data, and it seems they can't release the numbers
in each grid box.
There will be an HC paper on the buoy/ship SST issue, but this isn't yet used
operationally.
It will come, but not before your paper goes back.
I hope it is fairly straightforward to do RMSs as well as correlations.  We had SDs in the
2004 paper. I don't think RMSs would show anything untoward, but would take up some
more space.
WRT Rev 2, I'm not that convinced by some of Aiguo's arguments. Between us, I'm
not that convinced by some of his data analyses. The ones involving PDSI leave a
lot to be desired (this is coming to light in other work we are doing).
Rev 2 #6  Obviously not read the paper(s). CRUTEM3 is a simple average of stations
within a grid box. There is no interpolation! If there are no stations, then there is no
value!
I think this is the same for HadCRUH as well.
Rev 2 #13 Comment seems to end abruptly. I'd like to know what I might
have said! I don't think I've ever said I doubt GPCP!
I am around all the time except for the week of July 12-17, when I'll
be at the IPCC Scoping meeting in Venice. Kevin will be there as well.
Aiguo will be in CRU the first few days of the week after (July 20/21)
Cheers
Phil
