By Martine Powers | 04/27/2016 10:00 AM EDT
With help from Heather Caygle, Lauren Gardner, Kate Tummarello and Jennifer Scholtes
SHUSTER CLINCHES NARROW VICTORY - After a nail-biter of an election night, House Transportation Chairman Bill Shuster just barely eked out a win against opponent Art Halvorson in Pennsylvania's primary on Tuesday, nabbing 50.5 percent of the vote. His win, however narrow, has some significant implications: As POLITICO's Jake Sherman reports, Shuster's victory is a coup for Republicans fearful of losing an influential member of the party who is close with leadership. But the primary outcome also means that Shuster will be sticking around for at least a couple more years - and his fight to privatize U.S. air traffic control operations may yet garner major discussion, even if Shuster is not
able to push through his bill by the end of this Congress.
From his statement: "I am honored to represent a region that I have called home my entire life, and I thank the people of the 9th district for electing me to represent the Republican Party in the election this November" Shuster said. "My campaign focused on a positive message of conservative solutions that cut spending and put up a roadblock to President Obama's disastrous agenda, and I won't stop fighting for these values."
Back to business: And now that the primary is over, Shuster is expected to return his sights to the FAA bill. Senate Commerce Chairman John Thune said he's eager to hear about Shuster's game plan going forward. "Our staffs have talked and I think they tried to arrange to visit ... to talk about next steps on some stuff, including FAA reauthorization," Thune said. "That will happen probably ... later this week."
IT'S WEDNESDAY: Good morning and thanks for tuning into POLITICO's Morning Transportation, your daily tipsheet on all things trains, planes, automobiles and ports.
You knew it was only a matter of time until MT found a transportation-themed lyric in "Lemonade." Did we miss any others? Let us know: user@domain.com or @martinepowers.
"And we rode motorcycles / Blackjack, classic vinyl / Tough girl is what I had to be."
DROPPED WITH A THUD: It's official - the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations bill is next on the docket on the Senate floor. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell filed cloture on the motion to proceed Tuesday night. Earlier in the day, McConnell brushed off a question from reporter about whether a Zika virus response measure would get tacked on to the bill. "We haven't yet concluded how much or when, but we all are very much aware that this is a serious crisis," McConnell said.
WEST COAST DISPATCH: Former NHTSA chief David Strickland will speak at today's California hearing on driverless cars, representing the new lobbying group - called the Self-Driving Coalition for Safer Streets - backed by ride-sharing rivals Uber and Lyft along with Google, Ford and Volvo. Strickland, who serves as the nascent group's counsel and spokesman, said he's going to emphasize the opportunity NHTSA has to show leadership and help discourage "a patchwork of laws that would slow down or significantly delay the implementation of fully self-driving cars."
"It's not decades away. It's years away, maybe a handful of years away," he told Heather in an interview about when he thinks driverless cars will hit the mass market. Strickland, who was NHTSA's chief when it issued the 2013 guidance on driverless cars (which seems Luddite-like compared to what the agency is pursuing now) said the technology has changed so fast, necessitating an update to further define the federal role. "At the time, in 2013, that was the right approach," he told Heather. "I think what they've seen [at NHTSA now] is a maturity of the technology."
Birds of a feather: So how hard was it to get super rivals Uber and Lyft on board? "The fact that you have competitors that are very successful ... as individual companies ... and feel the need to have this powerful coalition, it speaks to that the time is now," he said.
UPDATES FROM THE HOUSE FLOOR: Legislation that would order the TSA to size up security at foreign airports with flights directly to the United States was passed by a voice vote in the House on Tuesday. "It is no secret that terror groups across the world value the horrific symbolism of bringing down an aircraft and are continuously plotting to take down planes," Rep. John Katko, the author of the bill (H.R. 4698), said on the floor. "They recognize that it is easier for them to take down an aircraft destined for the United States from overseas, rather than travel to the United States and then plot a domestic attack."
Busy day: The House also passed the PREPARE Act (H.R. 3583), which would, among other things, require public transportation agencies that receive federal grants to follow enhanced regulations on disaster preparedness. "From major mass transit arteries and chemical facilities to homes and schools, my district is vulnerable to a variety of man-made and natural disasters," said Rep. Donald Payne Jr. "Our community's first responders must be prepared to respond to every worst-case scenario."
MISSING THE MARK(UP): The Maritime Administration reauthorization bill is up for a markup by the Senate Commerce Committee today. The legislation is heavy on administrative changes to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy but light on provisions related to infrastructure. "To me, it's a little disappointing," said John N. Young of the American Association of Port Authorities when MT asked him about the bill on Tuesday. "There's a lot more that the Maritime Administration is doing than what's reflected in the reauthorization bill." One amendment on the docket, from Sen. Roger Wicker, would require an annual report outlining what happens to the money that's collected from the sale of retired
government vessels. 
It's a two-fer: The FCC reauthorization bill is also on the schedule for the Senate Commerce markup, and there's one measure up for consideration that will be of particular interest to the rail industry: An amendment by Sen. Roy Blunt that directs the FCC to make a rule to exempt modest-size positive train control projects from having to go through the environmental and historical review process - part of an effort to streamline PTC implementation.
AS THE TV CHANNEL TURNS: NTSB Chairman Christopher Hart responded to Sen. Lisa Murkowski's questions to the agency Tuesday about its involvement in a docu-series (or reality show, from the Alaska Republican's POV) about plane crash investigations in her home state. General aviation is the main way Alaskans move about the sparsely paved state, and Murkowski and some state tourism advocates fear the show presents a skewed view of the safety of air travel there. In addition to offering a defense of the participation in the documentaries - the NTSB argued that the TV show could encourage more accident witnesses to provide information to officials (like cellphone pictures or video) when
situations arise - the agency also noted that NTSB officials discussed the series with staffers from Murkowski's and Sen. Dan Sullivan's offices in June 2015, during a meeting on a range of subjects.
The agency studied rough cuts of each episode and found they lived up to the production agreement it had established with the film crew, which was intended to ensure the show wouldn't be shot in a reality TV-style format that could sensationalize events. NTSB had sole authority to select investigations to be featured in the series. Based on interviews, the board "has no reason to believe" its investigators or the producer misled any third parties present at the accident sites, such as family members, about the purpose of the filming but vowed to investigate further if Murkowski's staff can provide information supporting any such allegations.
To Murkowski's concern about the show's depiction of general aviation in Alaska, NTSB said: "The episodes individually and the series as a whole present an accurate account of the NTSB's aviation accident investigation process. The episodes and the series do not provide a valid basis to support conclusions about the overall safety of general aviation in Alaska."
A CALL FOR COMPROMISE: European Commissioner for Transport Violeta Bulc said Tuesday that the EU nations will have to be willing to compromise to strike an agreement on capping airplane emissions, according to POLITICO Europe's Anca Gurzu. "Achieving all of our objectives will be quite challenging. ... Substantial negotiating effort will be needed," she told the European Parliament's environment committee. "We need to stay ambitious, but we also need to be flexible and be ready to compromise." At stake is a global and market-based plan the U.N.'s International Civil Aviation Organization hopes will cap carbon dioxide emissions from the aviation sector at 2020 levels. Bulc said the current
proposal has a "good basis" in finding a balance between ICAO's principle of not discriminating among airline carriers, while also respecting developing countries' more limited capabilities to contribute to a global deal.
FLINT AID FINDS A HOME IN WRDA: After ricocheting around the Senate for months, a deal to help Flint, Mich. and other cities with aging and failing water distribution systems was written into the Water Resources Development Act unveiled by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee Tuesday, Pro's Annie Snider reports. The bill, which is traditionally filled with projects for the Army Corps of Engineers, this year includes a major update of the country's clean water and drinking water programs, including a new, $300 million, five-year grant program dedicated to lead pipe replacement. The EPA would be charged with implementing that program along, with a new trust fund drawing private
money for fixing water and sewer problems, and the bill directs EPA to rethink the financial impact of upgrades it requires. 
Does it have a chance? This year's WRDA is a last hurrah for EPW Chairman Jim Inhofe, who is term limited out of the chairmanship this year, and Ranking Member Barbara Boxer, who is retiring. The two have clearly decided to go out with a bang, but whether their influence can overcome many Republicans' dislike of EPA and government spending remains to be seen. 
WRDA in the House: The House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee has yet to unveil its version of WRDA, but Chairman Bill Shuster has shown less interest in dealing with municipal water infrastructure issues, suggesting his bill will be narrow.
** A message from the Air Line Pilots Association, International: By proposing to grant Norwegian Air International (NAI) a foreign carrier permit, Transportation Secretary Foxx is failing to enforce our Open Skies agreement with the European Union, thereby harming tens of thousands of U.S. workers. Secretary Foxx should stand up for U.S. workers and immediately deny NAI's request. <<link>> **
YOUR UBER TRIP, SUBSIDIZED: The Center for American Progress plans to release a report today that calls on Congress to support legislation that would allow some public transit agencies to use federal funding to pay for ride-sharing services from companies such as Uber and Lyft for people living in low-income communities that are poorly served by transit. "For the most economically disadvantaged individuals and families, gaining access to subsidized rides that connect with the larger public transit system could prove to be an enormous benefit," wrote Kevin DeGood and Andrew Schwartz. "Congress should establish a pilot program to allow agencies to try different approaches to leveraging these
new technologies, platforms, and providers."
HEARD IT HEAR FIRST: Before the NTSB came out with its announcement, yours truly broke the news that the NTSB located the data recorder from the SS El Faro, the cargo ship crewed by U.S. Merchant Mariners that mysteriously sank off the coast of the Bahamas during Hurricane Joaquin in October. Now, officials are working to recover the recorder from the depths of the ocean to try to figure out why and how the cargo ship sank. Here's video from NTSB of the "black box"discovery: bit.ly/1MX0ItC.
SNUBBED IN NORWAY: Though Norwegian Air International CEO Bj&oslash;rn Kjos complained to a Norwegian newspaper that Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx didn't have the courtesy to meet with him during a whirlwind European trip, a DOT spokeswoman offered an explanation: "The focus of the trip was smart cities and bike and pedestrian safety," she said, "so it was a full trip that did not allow for any extra meetings."
White House Correspondents' Association Weekend Event: Playbook Lunch with Billy Eichner and Funny or Die's Mike Farah and David Litt. Join POLITICO's Chief White House Correspondent Mike Allen as he takes Playbook live for a conversation with Funny or Die D.C.'s head writer/producer and President Barack Obama's former speechwriter David Litt, host of "Billy on the Street" and from Hulu's "Difficult People" Billy Eichner and President of Production of Funny or Die Mike Farah. Friday, April 29 - Doors at 11:30 a.m - The Newseum. RSVP: <<link>>
THE AUTOBAHN (SPEED READ):
- Back in '06, Volkswagen tech exec's PowerPoint explained how to cheat an emissions test. The New York Times.
- "Once Bustling Trade Ports in Asia and Europe Lose Steam." The Wall Street Journal. 
- Donald Trump's jet is back in the air, after legal maneuvering. The New York Times.
- "Bombardier Moves First-Quarter Results Release for Second Time." Bloomberg.
- "Afternoon of Red Line track issues follows weekend track fire." The Washington Post.
- "The state of Metro is a Gothic nightmare." The Washington Post.
- "At A Time Of Near-Constant Bad News For Metro, Why Has The WMATA Riders' Union Gone Silent?" WAMU.
- New York Comptroller wants more insurance for oil trains. POLITICO Pro.
- Small-town New York makor accused of stealing 111 roadway signs. The Huffington Post.
THE COUNTDOWN: DOT appropriations run out in 158 days. The FAA reauthorization expires in 80 days. The 2016 presidential election is in 196 days. Highway and transit policy is up for renewal in 1,620 days.
** A message from the Air Line Pilots Association, International: The Department of Transportation's (DOT) order proposing to approve Norwegian Air International's (NAI) request ignores both the terms of our the Open Skies agreement and the will of Congress. NAI's operation as a "flag-of-convenience" carrier in Ireland would allow the airline to skirt Norway's employment laws, give NAI an unfair economic edge, and put tens of thousands of U.S. aviation jobs at risk. 
DOT's decision is at odds with the letter, spirit, and intent of the U.S.-EU Air Transport Agreement and is opposed by U.S. and EU labor unions, airlines and others. More than 200 members of Congress from both sides of the aisle have urged Secretary Foxx to enforce the U.S.-EU agreement and deny the NAI application.
The Obama Administration needs to stand up for fair competition and U.S. jobs and deny NAI a foreign carrier permit. Learn more: <<link>> **
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
