Crew,
A letter was published today in the Battle Creek
(Michigan) Enquirer.
The subject was Scientology, a little off our usual
line. I just wanted you to see the letter because it
is SO good!
He was responding to a fairly nasty letter about
Scientology's presence in the town. I'm not going to
forward exactly what the original letter said.
One of the best things about this letter is that the
writer put our true messages out there without
forwarding the enemy's lines. Look how smooth it is
and how beautiful. This is kind of how we should write
anti-psych letters as well. I hope you get what I'm
saying. Read the letter and you'll see.
Best,
Doyle
Dialogue can lead to understanding
In response to Deborah Riska's letter ("Do research
before deciding on 'church,'" April 10) regarding the
Church of Scientology here in Battle Creek, I'd like
to acknowledge her observations of our presence, and a
few of the programs that we have been undertaking in
the community.
As Scientologists, we feel that we have a commitment
to contribute to the betterment of our community and
the individuals in it. We also feel that each person's
personal involvement is on a much higher level than
just sitting around waiting for someone else to do it.
So yes, you will continue to see us out and about,
doing our best to do something about it.
It is maybe a sign of our times to distrust the
efforts of others, and to feel the need to denigrate
them. One sees this in the news all of the time -
liberals bash conservatives, conservatives bash
liberals; businesses bash unions, unions bash
businesses.
And where does this all eventually lead? Hatred,
distrust, violence and even wars and death. Possibly,
just possibly, this may be a good time to take another
path. It may be that if we just worked a little harder
to communicate with each other, to see who our
neighbors are, we may find that they don't actually
bite, and may even be someone we would like to be
friends with someday.
This is a good community with a long history of
tolerance, justice, health, and fairness. I pray that
it does not slide into the hate, partisanship,
name-calling and violence that consumes so much of the
world. We can live together in an atmosphere of
understanding and tolerance. And that begins with
dialogue. I invite anyone in the community who wishes
to engage in such a dialogue to stop in and say hello.
The Rev. Michael Bredeweg
Church of Scientology
Battle Creek
