As promised to Adam here are some thoughts from SPA on the pages plus some going forward ideas regarding Dennisovich.  
There is great new stuff in these pages!  The scene with Dennis trying to be a bat is going to be heartbreaking and the new climatic battle with Bela in the woods is a fantastic new ending and works better than what we had before. We also love the scene when Drac stands up to Vlad – we think it’s a moment that will get the crowd cheering for Drac. And Dennis rescuing Winnie - fantastic! It does feels like rhythmically there is some condensing that can be done and that we need an on-point emotional tie up for Dennis and Drac (specific suggestions below). As I mentioned to Adam, it would be beneficial to us from both a marketing and a story perspective if we beef up Dennis' character and give him a bit more of a point of view.  Audiences want to see this kid interacting with the monsters and they love the idea of the Grandfather/grandson relationship and we want to deliver on a character that is both memorable and special to this film.  
In general, we think it would help to age him up a bit and make him a little more self-aware and reactive to what is going on around him (think Jonathan Lipnicki in Jerry MacGuire). We just want to make sure his character and his interactions and relationships with the other monsters are everything they can be. Let's make him into a greater presence in the film and give him some more attitude and personality.  Because you just turned the draft around, we want to offer some specific ideas and suggestions of things for existing scenes.
On a similar front, the idea of this human kid in a monster hotel is a big one, so we’d love to find a few moments in Act 1 when we the contrast of a human baby/kid against the dangerous monstery-ness of the Hotel.  Like getting caught in one of the spa contraptions, or in the spinning class web or Mavis asking for organic food for Dennis and getting the monster version of that.  Quick bits that maybe could be juxtaposed with the baby-proofing or elsewhere. Moments like these would help in the marketing of the film.  
Specific areas:
In general, Dennis’s use of “cebause” instead of “because” makes him sound very young. Let’s consider having him say “because” anywhere there’s a “cebause” to make him sound older.
Page 23: Making Dennis more self-aware would help to “age up” his personality and maybe he recognizes in this scene that his attempts to fly aren’t working.
Page 23: To not make Dennis seem so baby-ish, maybe he doesn’t cry in this scene. It could be enough that his lip quivers like he’s about to cry, and this is enough to make Drac try anything so that he won’t cry. Page 24-25: Dennis reads very young when he shouts out “Video!” and “Yay! Video!” Without those lines, he might read older. Page 27: When Wanda sprays Winnie to get her off of Dennis, maybe Dennis plays it more cool, like “It’s okay, Aunt Wanda, I can handle it.” Page 26-30: In general during Wolfpup Party, it would help if Dennis had more of an attitude that he can hang with the monsters. (We love when he says, “Best. Party. Ever.”) For example, when Mavis tells him to be careful, Dennis would seem older if he told his mom to stop because she’s embarrassing him; he doesn’t want to be treated like a baby.
