Hi LW,
I had a nice long talk with Diane Strahan regarding the plans for government affairs at the MPA…  She was profusely apologetic for the delay in returning my call – citing that she was in Cambodia and indicating I can always call her cell for a speedier reply, etc.
I started with the point that we are all wondering what’s going on with the gov’t affairs change and I couldn’t explain it to you/didn’t understand it myself, so I wanted to call…  I didn’t go into her being here in your office the week before, etc.  She apologized for not reaching out sooner and is starting to set meetings with the DCPs over the next couple of weeks to gather thoughts, etc.  
Her thought process about the path forward was rather interesting…
-        She thought that much like the GC search, she could approach this in a slower methodical manner…  I indicated that unlike the legal function where there’s established talent in the department, most of gov’t affairs is new/or transitioning out of the MPA and we are in a very active legislative/regulatory environment at this point…
-        She thought Michael would stay on until June or July (to plan and attend the global strategy meetings as his last act) – I asked if he was under contract or whether there was anything in place that would preclude him from leaving sooner/going to a competitor…  She said she didn’t think so, but would confer with Steve F. 
-        I told her that there is no one in the Eye street building that could take over at this stage…  She was fairly high on Shanna and I indicated I thought she was still getting her sea legs… 
-        She indicated that she/Dodd were evaluating whether to break Gov’t Affairs up into Domestic/International… I told her the companies are all thinking globally and this could result in creating silos and work against a comp global strategy… Also, a bit out of sync with the top legal role they locked up. 
Prior to the call (and perhaps it still may be the case), I think she may underestimate Michael’s contributions, overestimate what others on the team can do at this time, and underestimate the need to have a high-level government exec pulling this all together.  I do think she gets it more now (at least a little) and I think the call was a good idea – particularly, because I mostly wanted to convey that we aren’t chopped liver over here (okay, well I am… but that’s a different story)…
KW
