Dear Phil,
Thanks for your response. I agree that I think these folks just don't quite
seem to get it! Anyways, I've pasted in the text of Broecker's piece below
(everything there but the figure. Trust me, the figure isn't worth looking
at anyways). Will be very interested to hear your thoughts after reading
this...
mike
PALEOCLIMATE:
Was the Medieval Warm Period Global?
Wallace S. Broecker*
The reconstruction of global temperatures during the last millennium can
provide important clues for how
climate may change in the future. A recent, widely cited reconstruction
(1) leaves the impression that the
20th century warming was unique during the last millennium. It shows no
hint of the Medieval Warm
Period (from around 800 to 1200 A.D.) during which the Vikings colonized
Greenland (2), suggesting
that this warm event was regional rather than global. It also remains
unclear why just at the dawn of the
Industrial Revolution and before the emission of substantial amounts of
anthropogenic greenhouse gases,
Earth's temperature began to rise steeply.
Was it a coincidence? I do not think so. Rather, I suspect that the
post-1860 natural warming was the
most recent in a series of similar warmings spaced at roughly 1500-year
intervals throughout the present
interglacial, the Holocene. Bond et al. have argued, on the basis of the
ratio of iron-stained to clean
grains in ice-rafted debris in North Atlantic sediments, that climatic
conditions have oscillated steadily
over the past 100,000 years (3), with an average period close to 1500
years. They also find evidence for
the Little Ice Age (from about 1350 to 1860) (3). I agree with the authors
that the swing from the
Medieval Warm Period to the Little Ice Age was the penultimate of these
oscillations and will try to
make the case that the Medieval Warm Period was global rather than regional.
One difficulty encountered when trying to reconstruct Holocene temperature
fluctuations is that they were probably less than 1C. In my
estimation, at least for time scales greater than a century or two, only
two proxies can yield temperatures that are accurate to 0.5C: the
reconstruction of temperatures from the elevation of mountain snowlines
and borehole thermometry. Tree ring records are useful for measuring
temperature fluctuations over short time periods but cannot pick up
long-term trends because there is no way to establish the long-term
evolution in ring thickness were temperatures to have remained constant.
Corals also are not accurate enough, especially because few records
extend back a thousand years. The accuracy of the temperature estimates
based on floral or faunal remains from lake and bog sediments is
likely no better than 1.3C (4) and hence not sufficiently sensitive for
Holocene thermometry.
The Mountain Glaciation Record
At the Last Glacial Maximum, mountain snowlines throughout the world were
on average about 900 m lower than today (5). On the basis of
today's rates of temperature change with elevation, this required an air
temperature cooling at the elevation of the glacier of about 5C (and a
corresponding tropical sea surface temperature cooling of about 3C).
During the Younger Dryas--a cold "spell" of about 1200 years during the
last deglaciation--snowlines in the Swiss and New Zealand Alps dropped to
about 300 m below the lowest levels reached in the subsequent
Holocene.
Since their 1860 maximum at the end of the Little Ice Age, the retreat of
Swiss glaciers represents a rise in snowline of about 90 m (6). If this
rise could be attributed entirely to air temperature, the required warming
would be between 0.5 and 0.6C. However, simple considerations
suggest that precipitation changes result in a negative feedback of about
20% (7). The warming required to account for the post-1860 retreat of
Alpine snowlines would then be between 0.6 and 0.7C.
The post-1860 glacier retreat is not confined to Switzerland. With the
exception of Antarctica, it has been well documented everywhere on
Earth where ice-covered mountains are present (2). There is no doubt that
the Little Ice Age was global in extent and that the post-1860
warming was also global. In this regard, the Mann et al. (1)
reconstruction is consistent with the mountain snowline record.
The Medieval Warm Period has also left its traces in the Swiss Alps.
Holzhauser has reconstructed the history of a larchwood aqueduct
constructed by medieval farmers (8). It ran from a small mountain lake
along the valley occupied by the Grosser Aletsch Glacier, supplying
water to an Alpine village. The aqueduct was first constructed around 1200
A.D. (toward the end of the Medieval Warm Period). It was
partially destroyed when the glacier advanced in 1240 A.D. and had to be
totally rerouted after a further advance in 1370 A.D.
Swiss geologists and geomorphologists agree that the large moraines
marking the maximum glacier extent during the Little Ice Age are a
composite of debris left behind by a series of Holocene advances (9). For
example, soils separating individual advance episodes have been
found within the moraines. Precise dating has proven difficult, however,
and the chronology of these prior advances remains uncertain.
Two recent studies of Holocene climate cycles in the Swiss Alps have
greatly improved this situation. Both focus on establishing the times of
glacial retreats rather than advances. Holzhauser (8), on the basis of
radiocarbon dating of larchwood stumps exposed by the ongoing retreat of
the Grosser Aletsch Glacier, finds warm episodes 2400  300 and 1500  200
calendar years ago. Hormes and Schlchter (10-12) have dated
wood and peat fragments that are being disgorged from beneath a number of
Swiss glaciers. Radiocarbon dates of a large number of these
samples cluster in three major groups centered at 8700, 6600, and 4300
calendar years before present. The correlation between these Alpine
warm phases and the warm phases of Bond's North Atlantic ice-rafting
record, although imperfect, is encouraging (see the figure).
Climatic oscillations during the Holocene. Circles show the ratios of
iron-stained to total grains (for grains with diameters >63 mm) in a
North Atlantic core (3). The chronology is taken from (22). The green
(10-12) and yellow (8) boxes are based on radiocarbon dating on wood
and peat formed when the glaciers had retreated to positions similar to or
up-valley from those at present (see text). 
CREDIT: FIGURE PREPARED BY AUTHOR FOR THIS PUBLICATION
Borehole Thermometry
Geothermal heat is produced deep inside Earth, and the shape of the
vertical temperature profile measured in a borehole from any point on
Earth's surface thus reflects the depth dependence of the thermal
conductivity of the crustal material. The temperature at the surface does not
remain constant, however, and the thermal profiles therefore have kinks
that reflect past air temperature fluctuations. Mathematical
deconvolutions are used to reconstruct these fluctuations from the
temperature profile, but because of smoothing due to diffusive spreading of
past thermal anomalies, many different time histories fit the observed
downhole temperature record. The modeler selects from these
possibilities the temperature history with the least complicated shape.
The details are thus lost, and only the broad features of the time history
are captured.
Deconvolutions of thermal records from holes drilled through the polar ice
caps reveal broad maxima that reflect the colder temperatures during
glacial times. In Greenland boreholes, this broad glacial feature is
preceded by a narrower one, which requires a temperature oscillation to have
occurred in the late Holocene. The timing of this swing broadly matches
that of the Medieval Warm Period to Little Ice Age oscillation. Its
magnitude is about 2C (13). The borehole temperature record for Greenland
thus appears to reflect the climate changes thought to have led to
the establishment and eventual abandonment of the Viking colonies in
southern Greenland (2). It is also consistent with records in the Swiss
Alps.
Far Field Evidence
Evidence for the Medieval Warm Period from other parts of the world exists
but is spotty and/or circumstantial. From an analysis of 6000
continental borehole thermal records from around the world (14), Huang et
al. conclude that 500 to 1000 years ago, temperatures were warmer
than today, but that about 200 years ago, they cooled to a minimum some
0.2 to 0.7C below present. However, as is the case for the thermal
profiles in ice, those for continental boreholes are highly smoothed.
Although suggestive, the fluctuation postulated by Huang et al. does not
prove that the Medieval Warm Period was global in extent.
Evidence that climate during the latter part of the Medieval Warm Period
was much different from today's comes from moisture records for
the western United States. Stine has studied lodgepole pine trees rooted
at 8 to 19 m depth in Lake Tenaya in the high Sierra Nevada (15). For
the trees to have grown, the lake must have been nearly dry. In contrast,
only once during the past 50 years has the lake not overflown during
snowmelt. Using radiocarbon dating and ring counting, Stine has shown that
for 70 years before 1093 A.D., the lake stood at least 13 m below
its outflow spillway, and for 141 years before 1333 A.D., it stood at
least 11 m below its spillway (16). Stine has documented similar events at
Mono Lake and the Walker River (17). He concludes that late in the
Medieval Warm Period, California experienced several decade-long
periods of profound drought.
If, as Bond et al. (3) suggest, the cyclic changes in ice-rafted debris
composition reflect oscillations in the strength of the Atlantic's conveyor
circulation, one might expect temperature changes in Antarctica to have
been opposite in phase to those in the North Atlantic, as was the case
during the last deglaciation (18). Clow has carried out a deconvolution of
the temperature record at the Antarctic Taylor Dome site (19). His
reconstruction shows that the air temperature was 3C colder during the
time of the Medieval Warm Period than during that of the Little Ice
Age. This record suggests that conditions in Antarctica underwent an
antiphased oscillation during the Medieval Warm Period-Little Ice Age
period.
The Case for a Global Event
The case for a global Medieval Warm Period admittedly remains
inconclusive. But keeping in mind that most proxies do not have adequate
sensitivity, it is interesting that those capable of resolving temperature
changes of less than 1C yield results consistent with a global Medieval
Warm Period. To test whether this is indeed the case, we require Holocene
snowline fluctuation records for tropical and Southern Hemisphere
sites and continued studies of wood and peat exposed by the continuing
retreat of Northern Hemisphere glaciers. As the world's mountain
glaciers continue to retreat, ever more evidence for past Holocene warm
episodes will be exposed.
One might ask why the strength of the Atlantic's conveyor circulation
oscillates on a time scale of one cycle per 1000 to 2000 years. I suspect
that it has to do with the export through the atmosphere of water vapor
from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. The magnitude of this export
has been estimated to be (0.25  0.10) x 106 m3/s (20). If this freshwater
loss were not balanced by the export of salt from the Atlantic, the
latter's salt content would rise at the rate of about one gram per liter
each 1500 years. Such an increase in salt content would densify cold
surface water by an amount equivalent to a 4 to 5 K cooling, thereby
strongly altering the buoyancy of surface waters in the North Atlantic and
hence their ability to sink to the abyss.
I believe that this salt export is not continuous but episodic. The salt
content of the Atlantic periodically builds up until a strong conveyor
circulation mode is turned on, causing the salt content to drain down.
Eventually, a weak circulation mode kicks in, allowing the salt content to
build up again. I have suggested previously (21) that an apparent mismatch
between radiocarbon and chlorofluorocarbon-based estimates of the
rate of deep-water formation in the Southern Ocean may reflect a change in
circulation after the Little Ice Age.
The geographic pattern of Holocene climate fluctuations remains murky, but
several things are clear. The Little Ice Age and the subsequent
warming were global in extent. Several Holocene fluctuations in snowline,
comparable in magnitude to that of the post-Little Ice Age warming,
occurred in the Swiss Alps. Borehole records both in polar ice and in
wells from all continents suggest the existence of a Medieval Warm
Period. Finally, two multidecade-duration droughts plagued the western
United States during the latter part of the Medieval Warm Period. I
consider this evidence sufficiently convincing to merit an intensification
of studies aimed at elucidating Holocene climate fluctuations, upon
which the warming due to greenhouse gases is superimposed.
References and Notes
1.M. E. Mann, R. S. Bradley, M. K. Hughes, Geophys. Res. Lett. 26, 759
(1999) [ADS]. 
2.J. M. Grove, The Little Ice Age (Methuen, New York, 1988), pp. 1-198. 
3.G. C. Bond et al., Mechanisms of Global Climate Change at Millennial
Time Scales, Geophysical Monograph Series, vol. 112
(American Geophysical Union, Washington, DC, 1999), pp. 35-58
[publisher's information]. 
4.A. Lotter et al., Palaeogeogr. Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol. 159, 349
(2000) [GEOREF]. 
5.S. C. Porter, Quat. Sci. Rev., in press. 
6.M. Maisch et al., Die Gletscher der Schweizer Alpen (Hochschulverlag
AG an der ETH Zrich, Zrich, 1999), pp. 221-256. 
7.M. Greene, W. S. Broecker, D. Rind, Geophys. Res. Lett. 26, 1909
(1999) [ADS]. 
8.H. Holzhauser, in Paloklimaforschung Palaeoclimate Research 24,
Special Issue: ESF Project "European Palaeoclimate and Man
16," B. Frenzel et al., Eds. (Verlag, Stuttgart, 1997), pp. 35-58. 
9.F. Rothlisberger et al., Geogr. Helv. 35/5, 21 (1980). 
10.A. Hormes, The 14C Perspective of Glacier Recessions in the Swiss
Alps and New Zealand (Verlag, Osnabrck, Germany, 2001),
p. 176. 
11.A. Hormes, C. Schlchter, T. F. Stocker, Radicarbon 40, 809 (1998). 
12.A. Hormes, B. U. Mller, C. Schlchter, Holocene, in press. 
13.E. J. Steig et al., Science 282, 92 (1998). 
14.S. Huang, H. N. Pollack, P. O. Snen, Geophys. Res. Lett. 24, 1947
(1997) [ADS]. 
15.S. Stine, in Water, Environment and Society in Times of Climatic
Change, A. S. Issar, N. Brown, Eds. (Kluwer Academic,
Amsterdam, Netherlands, 1998), pp. 43-67 [publisher's information]. 
16.The level that would have existed had there been an annual
snowmelt-induced overflow. 
17.S. Stine, Nature 369, 546 (1994) [GEOREF]. 
18.W. S. Broecker, Paleoceanography 13, 119 (1998) [ADS]. 
19.G. Clow, personal communication. 
20.F. Zaucker, W. S. Broecker, J. Geophys. Res. 97, 2765 (1992) [ADS]. 
21.W. S. Broecker, S. Sutherland, T.-H. Peng, Science 286, 1132 (1999). 
22.M. Stuiver et al., Radiocarbon 40, 1041 (1998). 
The author is at Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Columbia University,
Palisades, NY 10964, USA. E-mail: user@domain.com
