Hi Keith and Eystein - thanks for the timely and helpful (very) feedback, Keith. Your
suggestions for 4 and 5 seem fine, and I wonder only about 6. I too am not sure where the
final clause came from, but I'll guess it was a suggestion of Stefan's that then stood the
text of time. In the spirit of trying hard not to change the meaning of bullets in the ES
from what the LA team agreed to in Bergen, what about changing this clause in the ES to
read "natural recovery", i.e.:
and it is very unlikely that this warming was merely a natural recovery from the pre-20th
century cold period."
This takes away the ambiguity, and does serve to address a widely held misconception
outside of our community - or at least to phrase the issue in terms that some might find
more useful.
If we keep this phrase, then I would suggest restating the entire ES sentence at the end of
6.6.3.
Is this ok? Again, I'm motivated by our team agreement - I do think we could delete this
phrase since it's more repetitive than new meaning, but would rather not unless it really
does not work. Personally, I like it as modified above, because it hammers the important
point from a slightly different perspective - one that seems to be on the minds of the
public still.
Thanks, both, for letting me know what you think fast.
best, peck
Hi Peck and Eystein
In response to Points 4-6
4.  Add the following after past 1300 years.    on line 13 page Y-33
"Considering the recent instrumental and longer proxy evidence together, it is very
likely that average Northern Hemisphere temperatures during the second half of the 20th
century were warmer than any other 50-year period in the last 500 years. "
Do not put anything in Box 6.4 which is written frolm the reverse perspective - evidence
of medieval period not good enough to say warmer than now. Also confuses statements
about 500 years and longer (1000 year ) Medieval ,time.
5. The person who says this has not read the text - see lines 28-33 on Y-32 where I
think this is well covered.
6.  If you read the text on lines 1-10 of PAGE Y-38 I think this meaning is clearly
conveyed. It is not in the same words -but easily supports the ES statement.
HOWEVER, I do not like the last part of the statement (and not sure where this came
from) because it is ambiguous and anyway implied by prior statement. I strongly urge you
to remove the section
"and it is very unlikely that this warming was merely a recovery from the pre-20th
century cold period."
These would sort things out I believe
cheers
Keith
