Hi everyone
I have been through the ideas and offer a few (aptly non organised) comments. First Phil is
away and will not be able to comment until later.
First, the project needs more explicit focus. The call will focused on natural variability
. We are offering a detailed analysis of the variability of climate in the Alpine Region
that focuses on CLIVAR timescales - basically very high resolution and not extending much
beyond a few centuries. The project incorporates instrumental , model and palaeodata . The
inter-relationships between these will be studied to gain an understanding of the nature
and mechanisms of the climate variability - but is this enough. I feel it needs to be
linked with a strong element of understanding the range of social/economic impacts of this
variability.
Perhaps looking at aspects such as avalanches, forest damage, floods, tourism etc.? I
merely put this out as a straw man . I feel the EC are putting a lot of emphasis on this
aspect of research and incorporating research and researchers in these or similar areas
will be a big plus.
As for the specific points in the brainstorming document -
The Dendro aspect :
I think it is essential to update the Alpine tree-ring chronologies that are available .
This is because they are a proven asset but many questions regarding tree-productivity (in
relation to observed 20th century climate variability) simply can not be addressed without
doing this. Many were collected over 20 years ago. The additional data would then allow new
processing techniques to be employed and vital questions concerning the changing responses
of tree-growth to explored. The most efficient way to do this is to involve several groups
working in the Alps , (Thank you for sending the Thesis by Giorgio Strumia which is
certainly a very impressive piece of work) I would think Rupert Wimmer's group and the
Birmensdorf group would be ideal (Fritz Schweingruber has retired but Jan Esper has joined
them in his place - I can ask them to be involved but this depends on what the group here
think are the priorities and how much we see as the overall budget and institutional
allocations). I should say here that I think we would require money for a single person who
could , if it is  agreed, work on aspects of tree-ring processing and relationships with
climate in association with the other tree-ring groups, but also work with the climate and
model data , especially with a view to exploring the statistical inter-relationships and
dynamical associations between the different climate data sets. There is also the French
tree-ring group at Marseille? Perhaps though not all need to partners - ALSO I am thinking
of putting together a European Tree-ring project (or suggesting it as part of a large
European integrated proxy study of Holocene variability) so if this happened there could be
a link between it (involving some of the groups mentioned) and this proposal. The Swiss
might be interested to produce selected site tree-ring density/updating which I think would
be very valuable and I will speak to them without commitment as you ask.
As for some of the climate analysis possibilities mentioned, I very much like the ideas of
detailed ,local climate comparisons with the larger CRU (and CRUder!) data. We are very
interested in the association between time dependence in the relationships between
circulation changes and changes in Temp. and Prec. Also changes in the nature of climate
seasonality , and also extreme events (frost frequency , drought, intense rainfall). The
detailed analyses of these characteristics also compliments the interpretational work on
the tree-ring and glacier mass balance (and socio economic foci) data.
As for the glacier work - is not a huge effort already going into this? I think it is
important but does it fit as well ? The work proposed would have to be distinguished from
other ongoing efforts - though I do like the idea of linking the geomorphological evidence
of past glacier change (moraines , pro-glacial sediment data?) with reconstructed glacier
volume changes , where the reconstructions are based on new long instrumental data , and
palaeodata (temp. and precip.) used to drive a model of the glacier volume.  Our German (or
Julie) colleagues can point to such work based on GCM output . My colleague here (Sarah
Raper) has also done this sort of work but using a very simple model to estimate past
Storglaciaren (in Sweden) volume changes  and her results imply that these models must be
forward driven and not based on simple regression analysis using temperature and
precipitation to estimate past mass balance.
The future aspects of the discussion are important - and it is true that the previous EC
call dealt with modelling and scenarios of future changes. Here, I believe the use of
models should be strictly limited to understanding natural /current variability and change.
There is no benefit in going for a 2 year project - I strongly urge 3. I also would find a
meeting difficult. I am away from 17-29 July, and 11-25 August, and in meetings during
7-10th July and 26-31st August.
Phil will be back here next week and will no doubt comment in more detail on the
instrumental analysis aspects then.
Very best wishes to all
Keith
