05/12/2016 07:35 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Thursday morning, Illinois. Gov. Bruce Rauner's polling numbers are edging dangerously close to Mayor Rahm Emanuel territory. A new survey out today by Morning Consult shows Rauner's approval dipped 8 percentage points to 34 percent since it conducted a similar survey last year. 
The percentage of people who said they disapproved of the way that Rauner is doing his job went up by 9 points, giving him a disapproval rating of 54 percent. According to the Morning Consult rankings, Rauner is the sixth most unpopular governor in America. His numbers dropped during a period that saw an unprecedented Illinois' budget stalemate persist, leaving social services in a lurch and a very public crisis in higher education that was only recently, partially resolved. 
From Morning Consult: Most Unpopular U.S. Governors: 
1. Sam Brownback (R-Kansas) 
2. Dan Malloy (D-Conn.) 
3. Rick Snyder (R-Mich.) 
4. Chris Christie (R-N.J.) 
5. Paul LePage (R-Maine) 
6. Bruce Rauner (R-Ill.) 
7. Gina Raimondo (D-R.I.) 
8. Scott Walker (R-Wis.) 
9. Matt Bevin (R-Ky.) 
10. Mary Fallin (R-Okla.) 
The full report goes live this morning here: <<link>> 
IN LEADERSHIP'S HANDS -- A group of lawmakers from both parties and both legislative chambers who had been meeting as part of the so-called Budgeteer Group in Springfield is forwarding a budget package to leadership, Illinois Playbook has learned. As part of the package: proposed cuts and proposed tax increases. There are no items from Rauner's turnaround agenda included in it. 
"This is a really simple budget issue. Just pluses and minuses. That was the agreement from all the leaders," said a legislative source who is part of the negotiations. "This is a package that somehow on paper is balanced. This is forwarded to the leaders and the governor and we'll see how they react ... Keep in mind, that at the end of the day, no matter what we put together, this particular group cannot get to 60 votes in the House and 30 votes in the Senate. That's up to leaders and to the governor's office." 
MONEY FOR SCHOOLS -- What's not included in the package? Funding for K-12 education. Education leaders in the House are discussing a new "hybrid" plan that would take portions of a Senate-backed funding formula overhaul and partner it with a so-called evidence-based plan backed by school superintendents. Sources tell Playbook that Manar's proposal will have a tough time passing as is, with opposition coming from lawmakers whose school districts lose out under the Bunker Hill Democrat's funding proposal change. The hybrid approach would mean no schools would lose money but Manar's machinations would go into effect based on district need to boost those with the least funding, while keeping
others at the same levels. 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
SCHOOL SUPTS WORRY -- "Moline superintendent among those warning of possible layoffs and closures," by The Associated Press' Shellie Nelson: "Illinois superintendents warned of school closures and staff layoffs as they implored state lawmakers to pass a budget to give them certainty for the fall. Education funding is the only portion of the budget for the current year that Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner signed. But superintendents from districts including Kankakee, Moline, and Streator expressed worry that there's no agreement for next year yet. They say they'll have to deplete their reserves to open this fall and that some might not make it all year." 
<<link>> 
DEATH THREAT TO GOVERNOR -- "Elgin Man Accused of Threatening Gov. Bruce Rauner," by Patch.com's Amie Schaenzer: "Bail has been set at $50,000 for an Elgin man accused of leaving a voicemail death threat for Gov. Bruce Rauner, the Elgin Courier-News reports. Jesse M. Kuzma, 31, of the 1100 block of West Highland Avenue, is charged with a felony count of threatening a public official. Kane County Assistant State's Attorney Scott Schwertley told the Daily Herald Kuzma left a message with Rauner's office at 11 p.m. on Friday. In the voicemail he stated, 'If I ever see you, consider this your death threat.'" <<link>> 
EXELON WANTS 'STATE ASSISTANCE' -- "Officials will plead Exelon nuke case with Rauner," by The News-Gazette's Tom Kacich: "Central Illinois legislators, labor union officials and representatives of taxing districts will meet with Gov. Bruce Rauner Thursday to underscore the importance of the Clinton nuclear power plant to the region's economy. Exelon Corp., which owns the Clinton plant, said last week that it would have to close the plant next year without help from the state. Another Exelon-owned nuclear facility at Cordova, near the Quad Cities, would have to close a year later without assistance, the company said. The 29-year-old Clinton plant operates efficiently, but has lost $453
million over the last six years, primarily because its costs are greater than other power plants in the Midcontinent Independent System Operators region, which includes a lot of low-cost wind, coal-fired and natural-gas plants, company spokesman Brett Nauman said." <<link>> 
AS A SIDE NOTE -- EXELON reported $34.5 billion in revenue in 2015. <<link>>  
WAS NOTHING PERSONAL, DOROTHY -- "Effort to appoint court clerk ditched amid racial accusations," by Chicago Tribune's Hal Dardick: "An effort to make the elected post now held by embattled Cook County Circuit Court Clerk Dorothy Brown an appointed office was abandoned Wednesday amid an outcry from a bevy of African-American groups that alleged racial motives were behind the initiative. In a County Board room packed with black protesters, including members of Black Lives Matter Chicago and members of the Rev. Jesse Jackson's Rainbow/PUSH, Commissioner Peter Silvestri, R-Elmwood Park, withdrew his proposal ... 'I am very concerned about the divisive nature of this resolution, especially
taken out of context as it has in so many different ways in the last couple of days,' Silvestri added. 'This had nothing ever to do with the Circuit Court clerk. I consider her a friend.'" <<link>> 
HUMAN SERVICES HELP -- "Measure to provide $700M for human services advances in House," by State Journal-Register's Doug Finke: "A House committee has given preliminary approval to legislation to spend $700 million to help out financially strapped human services in the state. The House Human Services Appropriations Committee approved the measure on a unanimous vote Wednesday ... about $700 million is being directed to a variety of human services programs that aren't covered by consent decrees or court orders that have kept much of state spending going out the door even without a state budget." <<link>> 
STUDENTS OF COLOR HIT HARDEST IN SCHOOL BUDGET STALEMATE -- "Illinois fiscal crisis threatens progress in college-going for students of color," by Catalyst Chicago's Melissa Sanchez: "The recent higher education bill that sent $600 million in stopgap funding to public colleges and universities will keep them afloat for the next few months. But with long-term state funding still held hostage by the ongoing budget crisis, deeper problems with college access and affordability remain unsolved for low-income and first-generation students of color, who depend most heavily on state aid and publicly funded universities. These cuts threaten the progress that Chicago and Illinois have made in getting
more of these students into college and earning degrees." <<link>> 
CONTROVERSIAL RULING -- "Judge refuses to reinstate $3.5 million jury verdict in fatal police shooting," by Chicago Tribune's Jason Meisner: "A Cook County judge ruled Tuesday her controversial decision to negate a $3.5 million jury verdict in a wrongful death lawsuit over a fatal Chicago police shooting should stand. Associate Judge Elizabeth Budzinski threw out the jury's award of damages in November. The jury had found Officer Marco Proano had used unjustified force in killing 19-year-old Niko Husband in 2011. But in answering 'yes' to a written question as part of their decision, jurors contradicted the verdict by indicating Proano had a reasonable belief that his life was in danger
when he opened fire. In asking Budzinski to reinstate the $3.5 million award, lawyers for Husband's mother, Priscilla Price, had argued the wording of the question was confusing." <<link>> 
KEEPING HIS FOOT ON THE PLATE -- "Tunney stands his ground against Cubs' patio license squeeze play," by Chicago Sun-Times' Fran Spielman: "Like a catcher blocking home plate before the rules were changed, Ald. Tom Tunney (44th) on Tuesday stood his ground against the Cubs' request for a patio permit to sell liquor at an open-air plaza adjacent to a renovated Wrigley Field. 'Remember they wanted to close Clark and Addison? This is another way of trying to close Clark and Addison. If you look at the rules for the patio license they requested, they could stay open from 11 a.m. to midnight and allow people to drink all day and all night during the game and after the game. That's a public
safety issue,' Tunney said." <<link>> 
RENTAL REALITY -- "Airbnb moved in, and there went my neighborhood," by Samuel A. Lichtenfeld for Crain's: "'Nice place to visit, but I wouldn't want to live there.' You've heard the common refrain. But if Mayor Rahm Emanuel and some aldermen get their way, you may hear the same thing about your neighborhood. They call Chicago a city of neighborhoods. Yet the Great American City is being invaded by the vacation rental industry, led by Airbnb. The City Council is considering an ordinance that would regulate Airbnb rentals here. You may live near such a rental. Chances are good you do not know the owner. Chances are good the city does not either." <<link>>
IT'S A DIGNITY DEBATE -- "Transgender rights fight is about dignity, not privacy," by Chicago Tribune's Eric Zorn: "Come on, it's not really about bathrooms at all, is it? Much of the current debate over the rights of transgender people centers on which multiple-occupancy public restrooms and changing rooms trans people should be allowed to use. North Carolina officials and the U.S Justice Department recently filed dueling lawsuits over that state's new law mandating that people use bathrooms corresponding to the gender on their birth certificate in government facilities. And the American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois announced Tuesday it will intervene in opposition to a lawsuit filed
last week that seeks to ban Palatine-based Township High School District 211 from allowing a transgender girl access to the girls' locker room." <<link>> 
SPEAKING UP FOR FIRST TIME -- "CPS principal, mayoral critic to tell of CPS charges he faces," by Chicago Sun-Times' Lauren FitzPatrick: "Principal Troy LaRaviere, who's been ousted from a Lake View elementary school, plans to finally discuss the charges Chicago Public Schools has filed against him at a news conference Thursday morning. LaRaviere, one of Mayor Rahm Emanuel's loudest critics who actively campaigned against him, says he will speak to the charges he faces for the first time since being forced out of top-rated Blaine Elementary School. He had a formal hearing on Wednesday before a hired independent hearing officer at Chicago Public Schools to determine the future of his job." 
<<link>> 
NO SECOND CHANCE -- "Chance The Rapper, Whose Dad Works For Rahm, Says Chicago 'Needs A New Mayor,'" Chicagoist's Mae Rice: "'We need a new mayor, for sure,' Chance the Rapper says of Chicago in a new Complex profile, responding to a suggestion from the writer that President Barack Obama could run for mayor here after his presidential term is up ... However, that particular stands out because Chance's father works for Mayor Rahm Emanuel, the guy Chance was implicitly criticizing. Ken Bennett, Chance's dad (Chance was born Chancelor Bennett) works as Rahm's Deputy Chief of Staff and Director of Public Engagement. He was appointed to both posts in 2014, according to the Tribune." 
<<link>> 
