04/27/2016 07:28 AM EDT
By Burgess Everett (@burgessev or user@domain.com) 
Featuring Seung Min Kim 
FATTAH FIRST INCUMBENT TO GO DOWN: Primary season claimed its first incumbent victim last night, when indicted Pennsylvania Rep. Chaka Fattah went down to state Rep. Dwight Evans. Fattah was preparing for a trial on bank fraud, racketeering, bribery and money laundering next month, a burden that apparently became too much for the longtime Philly representative's constituents. "Fattah conceded just after 10 p.m. He stuck to the twin themes of his campaign - his long record of bringing resources to the district, and his complaint that the media did not give those accomplishments attention. 'There were forces arrayed against us tonight of very powerful and influential people,' Fattah told his
supporters, gathered in a Center City union hall ... Fattah used a robocall to court voters Tuesday, including audio from a 2013 shout-out from President Obama at a Congressional Black Caucus event. The White House pushed back, saying Fattah did not have permission to use Obama's voice." Evans is the fav in the bright blue district. Philly.com: <<link>>
Shuster survives scare: Hobbled by stories about his relationship with an airlines lobbyist, House Transportation Chairman Bill Shuster narrowly beat back Art Halvorson's bid from the right last night. "Washington Republicans were on alert all evening, worried they would lose a senior committee chairman close to the leadership. Senior GOP lawmakers and aides were under the impression that Shuster - the House Transportation and Infrastructure chairman - would win resoundingly. His family has represented the district since 1973 - Bill took office in 2001, and his father had the seat before him," Jake writes. Shuster won by a point, according to results up early this a.m.: 
<<link>>
The best of the rest: Jamie Raskin beat David Trone in Maryland's Eighth, after Trone spent more than $12 million on his congressional bid. Alas, the owner of Total Wine & More has access to plenty of libations to drown his sorrows. In the Fourth, former Lt. Gov. Anthony Brown redeemed his embarrassing 2014 loss in the guv's race. Democratic State Rep. Steve Santarsiero will take on GOPer Brian Fitzpatrick in Pennsylvania's Eighth, and it's State Sen. Lloyd Smucker (R) against Democrat Christina Hartmann in the state's 16th. 
ESTABLISHMENT STRIKES BACK: Rep. Chris Van Hollen and Katie McGinty won the Maryland and Pennsylvania Democratic Senate primaries respectively last night, a pair of wins that will bring smiles to the faces of party bosses from Philadelphia to Annapolis. Former Rep. Joe Sestak came under heavy assault from the DSCC over the past month after leading for months, totally washing away his lead as he lost by 10 points last night. Van Hollen beat former Rep. Donna Edwards even more handily in Maryland, where he's the overwhelming favorite to replace Sen. Barbara Mikulski. 
McGinty attacked immediately: But while Maryland is wrapped up for the Democrats, Pennsylvania is just getting started with Sen. Pat Toomey sitting on a pile of cash. And in a sign of how rough things will get, the Club for Growth's super PAC dropped $500,000 on McGinty as soon as she was declared the winner, per Pro's Kevin Robillard. "The ad previews a general election attack line that also recurred in her primary: that McGinty has made trips through the 'revolving door of government.'" Watch the ad here: <<link>>
LOOKS LIKE TRUMP-CLINTON: Donald Trump won all five states last night while Hillary Clinton won all but Rhode Island. That means Republicans in Congress are working on their talking points for inevitable "Will you support Trump?" questions while Democrats will try to figure out how to passive aggressively get Bernie Sanders out of the race. 
DAILY SCOTUS: Today Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland will meet with Oklahoma Sens. Jim Inhofe and James Lankford, South Dakota Sen. Mike Rounds and Florida Sen. Bill Nelson, the only Democrat on the docket, per the White House. Tomorrow Garland will meet with two Democrats: Sens. Gary Peters of Michigan and Ron Wyden of Oregon. 
BATTLE OF THE BULLS: More days than not, Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid comes to the floor to bash Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley's stubborn refusal to move a Supreme Court nominee. And nearly as often, Grassley comes to the floor to respond a few hours later. "For two months uninterrupted, the senior senators who've occupied their seats since Ronald Reagan was in the White House have been locked in a nasty war of words on the Senate floor. The protracted, personal nature of the feud between the former majority leader and powerful committee chairman is a rare sight in a chamber that's tried to maintain some air of courtesy between members, even as it grows more partisan." This
is an EXCLUSIVE clip of SMK's story, which will post online later today. 
AYOTTE, PORTMAN GET BOOST: ClearPath Action Fund, a super PAC by wealthy conservative Jay Faison, is announcing a seven-figure media campaign to support Sens. Kelly Ayotte and Rob Portman, per a forthcoming release: "ClearPath Action Fund is takinga different, innovative 'digital-first' approach that will analytically prove what messages are and aren't working with voters, based on rigorous experimental design."
Wednesday wobbles but it won't fall down. And welcome to the Huddle, your play-by-play guide to everything Capitol Hill, where the takes are hot and the drinks are cold. Please send tips to user@domain.com and follow along on Twitter @burgessev. 
TODAY IN CONGRESS - The House is in at 10 a.m. and will be working on some suspensions and the "Helping Angels Lead Our Startups Act." Two sets of votes around 2:30 and 4:30 p.m. The Senate is in at 10 a.m. and will take a cloture vote at 11 a.m. on the energy and water spending bill. 
AROUND THE HILL - At 9:30 a.m. members of the California delegation and L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti talk about holding the Olympics in L.A. in 2024 on the House triangle. At 10 a.m. House Speaker Paul Ryan and his leadership team hold a presser in HC-8 while Democratic leaders do the same in HVC-210. At 10:15 a.m., Sens. Martin Heinrich and John Hoeven talk bison in SVC-201. At 11:30 a.m. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Rep. Patrick McHenry hold the Innovation Initiative's Forum in the Capitol Visitor Center auditorium. At 11:45 a.m. in the Senate studio, it's Sens. Thom Tillis and John McCain speaking about the VA. And at noon a West Virginia connection as Sens. Joe Manchin and
Shelley Moore Capito reintroduce Jessie's Law in S-120. 
HOUSE D VISITOR: FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler will stop by the House Dem caucus today, an aide says. 
TUESDAY'S MOST CLICKED: Gotta be Sen. Jeff Flake and a cheetah. 
BIG BOOST FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE REFORM: The National District Attorneys Association threw its weight behind the Senate's revised criminal justice reform legislation in a new letter, saying the legislation now "strikes the appropriate balance" so law enforcement can go after the highest level drug traffickers while still decreasing crime. One change they applauded in particular was revising the legislation's retroactivity provisions so that anybody with a serious violent felony on their record would not be able to benefit from the loosened mandatory minimum sentences. "We feel this filters out the truly dangerous individuals who should stay out of the community, while allowing lower level
offenders a chance for redemption," the association's president, William Fitzpatrick, wrote to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Minority Leader Harry Reid. Read the letter here: <<link>>
Time running short: The backing from the NDAA, which includes 2,500 district attorneys and 30,000 assistant district attorneys, gives the stalled criminal justice bill a jolt of momentum at a critical time. Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-Texas) said Tuesday he was "hopeful that we'll have something for you by Thursday" and the authors of the bill are courting new co-sponsors, yet can't get them - particularly Republicans - to commit. "Everybody is interested but you can't get anybody to ever get you to a decision," Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) said earlier this week. "I'm hoping to do it this week but ... we ain't going to do it until we get signed on the
dotted line."
PEAK FLAKE: This is why Republicans and reporters alike wondered how Flake would handle the Supreme Court vacancy. "Sen. Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) blocked a fellow Senate Republican's attempt to jump-start the confirmation of Roberta Jacobson ... Frustrated for months, Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) took to the Senate floor late Tuesday to try and break the logjam over Jacobson, a top State Department official whose work on the Obama administration's Cuba policy has drawn fire from senators who've criticized normalizing relations with the Castro regime." SMK: <<link>>
TEXAS-STYLE ROAST: Cornyn got pretty dang candid about Sen. Ted Cruz in an interview KERA. "I think he's taken the more immediate shorter-term view of things ... Clearly, he didn't come here to remain in the Senate. He came here to run for president. I think that perhaps explains the difference in tactics." <<link>>
STALLED ITEMS -- Puerto Rico: McConnell said Tuesday that he'll allow the House to go first on legislation intended to save Puerto Rico from impending doom. Easier said than done, my guy Pete Schroeder from the Hill reports: "The new Speaker is pressing his conference to back legislation providing debt relief for Puerto Rico, but it's not clear the Wisconsin Republican can muster a majority of his members ... Conservatives are grumbling about helping the territory rework a massive debt burden built over decades, while rank-and-file members were spooked by outside ads lambasting the package as a 'bailout' for the island." <<link>>
Zika money: Reid wants the Senate to cancel recess until it provides emergency money for Zika. Republicans, of course, won't do that but say that things are moving along, albeit slowly after Democrats rejected an emerging deal to provide about half the $1.9 billion requested by the White House. "One of the negotiators, Sen. Patty Murray of Washington, who is also a member of the Democratic leadership, even praised Republicans for working in 'good faith' to reach an agreement. But when Democrats huddled in their weekly policy lunch in the Capitol Tuesday rank-and-file senators pushed back against the emerging deal and pressed their leaders to go back the table and insist Republicans approve
Obama's full request, according to multiple sources familiar with the discussion." CNN: <<link>>
LOTS OF TRANSITIONS: Proud Mainer Liz Johnson is moving to ManchVegas to go full time on Ayotte's campaign, guy; Chloe Rockow is the point of contact in D.C. for reporters who want to know if Ayotte will support the nominee. TW Arrighi is Rep. Mike Pompeo's new communications director as the Kansas congressman settles in for a few more years in the House. And Jane Lee is moving from Sen. John Cornyn's office over to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's suite to serve as policy advisor.
White House Correspondents' Association Weekend Event - Playbook Lunch with Billy Eichner and Funny or Die's Mike Farah and David Litt. Join POLITICO's Chief White House Correspondent Mike Allen as he takes Playbook live for a conversation with Funny or Die D.C.'s head writer/producer and President Obama's former speechwriter David Litt, Host of "Billy on the Street" and from Hulu's "Difficult People," Billy Eichner and President of Production of Funny or Die, Mike Farah. Friday, April 29 - Doors at 11:30 a.m - The Newseum. RSVP: <<link>> 
TUESDAY'S TRIVIA WINNER - Andrew Smith was the first to answer that James Buchanan of Pennsylvania was the last former secretary of state to win the presidency.
TODAY'S TRIVIA - I'll take today's question: Indiana is the next big primary, so why don't you tell me the largest number of congressional seats the state ever had. The first person to correctly answer gets a mention in the next day's Huddle. Email me at user@domain.com
GET HUDDLE emailed to your Blackberry, iPhone or other mobile device each morning. Just enter your email address where it says "Sign Up." <<link>>
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
