Ray,
Glad to see you're onto this. Obviously anything shouldn't make it even worse
for Edouard, but you're in contact with him.
I'd be happy to sign onto any letter from Science, but this isn't essential. I know
the series Courtillot has used (and Pasotti re-uses) came from here, but it isn't
what he and the authors says it was. I also know it doesn't make much difference
if the correct one was used - given the smoothing. It is just sloppy and a
principle thing. The correct data are sitting on our web site and have been since
Brohan et al (2006) appeared in JGR. Even the earlier version (HadCRUT2v) would
have been OK, but not a specially produced series for a tree-ring reconstruction
paper back in 2001/2 and not on our web site.
Then there are all the science issues you and Edouard have raised in RC and the EPSL
comment.
I have had a couple of exchanges with Courtillot. This is the last of them from
March 26, 2007. I sent him a number of papers to read. He seems incapable of
grasping the concept of spatial degrees of freedom, and how this number can
change according to timescale. I also told him where he can get station data at
NCDC and GISS (as I took a decision ages ago not to release our station data,
mainly because of McIntyre). I told him all this as well when we met at a meeting of
the French Academy in early March.
What he understands below is my refusal to write a paper for the proceedings of
the French Academy for the meeting in early March. He only mentioned this requirement
afterwards and I said I didn't have the time to rewrite was already in the literature.
It took me several more months of emails to get my expenses for going to Paris!
Cheers
Phil
From Courtillot 26 March 2007
Dear Phil,
Sure I understand. Now research wise I would like us to remain in contact. Unfortunately, I
have too little time to devote to what is in principle not in my main stream of research
and has no special funding. But still I intend to try and persist. I find these temperature
and pressure series fascinating. I have two queries:
1) how easy is it for me (not a very agile person computer wise) to obtain the files of
data you use in the various global or non global averages of T (I mean the actual montly
data in each 5 box prior to any processing, including computation of the "temperature
anomaly")? How do I do it?  What I would like to be able to extract is for instance all of
the data within a given 5 by 5 box with their dates (so: lat, lon, time, value). I
understand these are monthly means, though we find that there may be some quite important
information in the daily values which is likely lost on monthly averaging, but this is
another question...
2) I know you answered my question but still I have trouble grasping the answer. Could you
explain how the global T average for periods say before 1900 can haev a total uncertainty
under 0.2C back to 1850. This can only be true, given the data distribution in the Rayner
et al paper, if T is an incredibly smooth function of location. Did you really answer me
that by extracting from the recent (post 1950) database data with the same geographical and
temporal distributions as the 1850-1900 data you get almost the same result as with the
full modern data (with an uncertainty just above 0.1C). This seems truly amazing, and
would never work with the global magnetic field data I am accustomed to work on. Yet it
does not seem to me that climate varies as slowly and with as long spatial scales as the
magnetic field...
I will very much appreciate your comments and help on those.
Thank you again for having come to our meeting.
Yours very sincerely,
Vincent
--
Vincent Courtillot
Professor of Geophysics University Paris 7,
Director Institut de Physique du Globe de Paris,
Member Institut Universitaire de France,
Member Academia Europaea and French Academy of Sciences
President, Geomagnetism and Paleomagnetism, American Geophysical Union
President, Scientific Council, City of Paris
Date: Tue, 15 Jan 2008 12:20:57 -0500
From: Michael Mann <user@domain.com>
Reply-To: user@domain.com
Organization: Penn State University
User-Agent: Thunderbird 2.0.0.9 (Windows/20071031)
To: Phil Jones <p.jones@uea.ac.uk>, Gavin Schmidt <gschmidt@giss.nasa.gov>
Subject: [Fwd: Re: [Fwd: Edouard Bard]]
X-UEA-Spam-Score: 0.3
X-UEA-Spam-Level: /
X-UEA-Spam-Flag: NO
update from Ray P...
mike
---