Valerie, Francoise et al.
We also were suprised by the "conclusion" that there was a 9-7 ka optimum.
This probably arose from a statement by Greg Zielinski regarding the Arctic
records.  In any case, the article by Dominique and Kieth was just a rough
draft -- we have pointed out the mistake to them and I expect we will all
see a final version anyway!
Regarding the subject of the HIHOL paper, we agree that there are already
many papers published that dicuss the temperature interpretation of
isotopic records during the Holocene.  What has not been done, however, is
to include the best Holocene records from both polar regions in a single
paper, nor to make a specific comparison of the timing and magnitude of the
optimum (or optima).  For example, the elevation effect on the long-term
trends for East Antartica has been discussed (Masson et al., 2000) but not
quantified.  Of course quantifying this effect is difficult but our paper
could put useful error estimates, for example, on the amount of cooling in
the late Holocene.  We do not of course wish to compete with Sigfus, but
his paper will be more limited in geographic focus than ours and will
include new data that we will not use.  It would be good to include NGRIP
borehole temperatures if we can, but this is not necessary.  Even the GRIP
and GISP2 records show very clearly the Holocene optimum.  Our suggestion
would be to let Dorethe decide on that, in consultation with Sigfus.
In our vision, one of the key features of the Holocene article will be its
deliberately limited scope and confinement to observation rather than
speculation about causes of climate change.  We think that to involve
modelers and oceanographers makes it difficult to keep the focus and is
rather beyond the intended purposes of the Holocene volume.  Keep in mind
that modelling was looked at separately at the HIHOL meeting and we believe
that the modelers at the meeting are planning their own contribution to the
volume.
As mentioned earlier, we think the best way to get the paper going is to
begin soon the process of simply collating data sets and putting them all
on one graph.  We can then discuss the details of the paper with the same
image in front of each of us.
We hope that you can agree more-or-less with the above, and that others on
our email list will also provide some input.  We are of course open to
further discussion!
Further comments?
Eric and Tas
