Dear Osvaldo and Martin,
It is very difficult to make considered input into this process at such short notice.  I
received the emails Wednesday afternoon, just before being away from the office for 48
hours.  I also am not fully aware of the process into which this is fitting and it is the
first time I have seen the WGII outline.  I do however make some comments on the following:
The WGII outline
Chapter 2 on data etc.
Chapter 13 on critical damage etc.
WGII outline
-----------------
Key Questions:  there is, in analytical terms, very little difference between the 2nd and
4th key question you pose.  The impacts under unmitigated CC (Q2) are not in any
fundamental way different from the impacts under mitigated CC (Q4).  2degC warming, for
example, will give broadly the same impacts whether this occurs because of strong CC policy
intervention or whether it occurs because of low carbon development paths.  What matters
more for impacts is the rate of CC and what matters more for how important those impacts
are is the development path pursued.  I think this distinction between mitigated and
unmitigated CC is tenuous and unhelpful.  This has a bearing on the later discussions about
stabilisation (where "stabilisation" is usually assumed to be, indeed often synonymous
with, the result of mitigative action; actually (quasi-) stabilisation, at different
levels, can occur in a world with relatively little direct CC mitigation policy).
The progression through the sections follows a rather linear and reductionist model -
observed impacts, future impacts, adaptation,regions.  I would have liked to have seen an
early opening chapter on the nature of the dynamic relationship between climate and society
(before we even start talking about climate change), this being able to bring out notions
of vulnerability and adaptation - both fundamental to put on the table before we start
thinking about future climate change and how important it is.  This could also point out
that "critical" damage is already being caused by climate and climate variability.
Under your structure, the observed impacts section (II) should surely parallel the later
future impacts section (III) in terms of sectors/themes.  There are only 4 themes in
section II, yet 6 (different) themes in section III.  Why for example is nothing said about
observed impacts on urban infrastructure or on coasts?  The asymmetry between these section
sub-themes is itself perhaps revealing.
It seems odd that adaptation is to be addressed in all the thematic chapters in Section III
*as well as* in a separate later chapter on adaptation.  This situation is ripe for overlap
and redundancy.  Our understanding of adaptation in any case should be brought in right at
the beginning (see above).
The avoiding critical damage chapter suffers from the same problem identified above - what
matters is whether and how such exceedance rates can be identified, not whether they result
from either a mitigated or an unmitigated scenario - this academic distinction cannot be
sustained in the real world.
The regional section is in danger of repeating the mistake in the TAR, again leading to
dispersion of effort and redundancy.  My suggestion would be *not* to assess all new
regional knowledge (again; very turgid), but instead to produce a much more streamlined
section focusing on a few regional/local case studies that illustrate sharply many of the
(integrating) themes introduced earlier - vulnerability, adaptation, criticality, impacts.
Deliberately seek to be selective and not comprehensive.
I also do not see how the WGII chapters will be co-ordinated with the 5 cross-cutting
papers identified here - again, there seems much scope for duplicitous effort and
redundancy or even contradiction.  And since the cross-cutting papers are really the
interesting and useful ones, this suggests to me that the old traditional WG structure of
IPCC is now deeply flawed (as I have said more than once before in public).
Chapter 2 - Assumptions, etc.
---------------------------------------------
First question to raise is what is WGI doing in this regard?  I cannot comment sensibly
without knowing how WGI will tackle questions of scenarios and future projections.
In section 2.3, 4th bullet:  how relevant really are these "Stabilisation scenarios
(mitigation)"?  At the very least IPCC must clear up this issue about whether stabilisation
is a short-hand for mitigation (as implied here).  This is potentially misleading, since
stabilisation can occur in many different worlds, by no means all of them worlds with
strong CC mitigation policies.  Continuation of this thinking means reality is being forced
to accommodate the arbitrary thinking of the UNFCCC rather than UNFCCC being forced to take
account of reality.
Also in this bullet is "Impacts of extreme climate events".  Why are impacts being looked
at here?  Surely this is totally misplaced.  What is important are scenarios - of whatever
origin and methodology - that embed within them changes in the character of "extreme"
weather and how we describe such changes.  We should not separate this out as a separate
issue surely.
Section 2.4 (the second appearance) confuses me.  Much of this material appears earlier in
2.3, thus characterisations of future conditions is what 2.3 is about and also the
projected changes in key drivers is what the scenarios part of 2.3 is all about.  Do you
mean to differentiate between methodology (2.3) and outcomes (2.4b)?  And as always you
will run into the problem of summarising what scenarios actually *are* assumed in this
report - is there to be an IPCC 4AR standard scenario(s) that all should use?  I suspect
not.  Resolving this problem gets to the heart of the structural problem with IPCC.
Different people will use different assumptions.
Chapter 13 - Critical Damage ...
------------------------------------------------
This outline was almost unintelligible to me!  For example having read the opening aims and
scope statement several times, I an still not clear about the approach this chapter is
taking.  Sections 13.2 and 13.3 are also extremely unclear as is section 13.4.
I think someone needs to do some clearer thinking about this chapter before sending it out
for people to comment on.  I have my own views on this, but at such short notice and
without knowing the agreed IPCC process I'm not going to write the chapter outline for you.
Inter alia, the chapter should address the following:
- different paradigms for defining "critical"; will vary by sector, culture, etc.
- distinction between external (pronounced) definitions of critical and internal
(experienced/perceived) definitions
- relationship between adaptive capacity and "critical" rates of change
- dependence of critical thresholds on sector and spatial scale
- reversibility (or not) of critical damage
... and if the use of "critical" is a euphemism for "dangerous" then it is not very subtle
- people will see through this.  What is the difference between critical and dangerous?
Professor Mike Hulme
Tyndall Centre
