By now all active members should have recieved an invitation to the NSM
National Meeting. As usual NSM Nationals requires you to pre-register so we
know how much food to make for the Dinner. Those who do not pre-register
with NSM HQ for the National Meeting will not be informed of the location.
All Pro-White individuals and groups are welcome to attend the March on DC.
March on DC April 19th. Be there!
*National Socialist Movement Organizing March Against Illegal Immigration
on Washington DC*
On April 19th 2008 the National Socialist Movement and other Patriotic
Americans intend to lead a march and protest against the illegal invasion
of America to our Nations Capitol.
We march on Washington DC to send a message to the crooked Politicians of
both the corrupt Democratic and Republican Parties. Our message is listen to
the citizens of this Nation who elected you, listen to them and close the
Borders or you will be replaced! We as Americans demand that our Nations
Borders are closed, and that an America First Policy is enacted.
We are calling out to all proud Americans to join us in this mass protest.
The system cannot ignore hundreds of angry citizens marching on the Nations
Capitol. Stand with us as we confront those who wish to turn our Nation into
a third world melting pot!
In 2008 the Immigration issue will be at the forefront. Anyone with eyes and
ears can bear witness to the changing face of our Nation. This will be the
opportunity of a lifetime for Pro-White and Pro-American activists to make
themselves heard. No excuses, no half measures, simply put BE THERE!
All side issues, disagreements, and other matters will be cast aside on
April 19th. All are invited to this Historical event. All groups, Political
Parties, etc. that wish to endorse or participate are welcome and will be
considered as speakers should they wish to participate. A Historical
endeavor of this proportion has not been tackled by the "so-called" Far
Right here in America in many years. Our counterparts in Europe put hundreds
and often thousands of Patriots into the streets to demonstrate for their
rights, and make their voices heard. On April 19th, 2008 it is our time. Do
not let opportunity this pass you by, see you in Washington DC on April
19th.
