PLEASE find a balanced and well advised account on the present stratospheric tech valuations.
[ #1 ] "As Upfront Ventures VC Mark Suster outlined in a July blog post, hedge funds, mutual funds and even big corporations are making pre-IPO investments in ways that are expanding the available pool of cash and shouldering aside traditional VCs.”[ #2 ] "Smaller investors also are getting in on the game, through seed-stage investments. That trend will likely accelerate, thanks to the crowdfunding provisions of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act that will soon allow anyone to participate in the earliest rounds of financing."[…]
[ #3 ] "Many startup founders view this investment as necessary to capture 
markets before their competitors can, as they race for mindshare and 
real estate on your smartphone’s home screen. But that also means these 
startups are losing money even if they have significant revenue, because
they are using their war chest to buy a share of the market. That’s how
2014 isn’t so different from 2000.""What’s different is pretty 
much everything else: Nearly all of these companies insist that they 
could make money if they wanted. The “unit economics” of their business 
models work out, they tell themselves and their investors, meaning that 
at least they aren’t losing money on every transaction.""But they 
are losing money on other things, whether it’s sales and marketing or 
capital spending to buy or build assets they can then turn into 
services, which many are selling on a subscription basis."“ “Right now money is certainly chasing growth,” says Brian O’Malley, a partner at VC firm Accel. “It’s not totally blind growth. They do care about unit math and retention, but growth is certainly the most important factor.” ""This is where I grow skeptical. Every hot tech company I can think of, from “sharing economy” giants such as Uber and Airbnb, to enterprise and financial-tech companies like Hortonworks (big data) and Lending Club (peer-to-peer financing) face threats that could cause them to fall short of current valuations. Those threats include regulation and competition, but the biggest one is the same as it ever was: Whether there are enough people and companies out there willing to buy their stuff.""And some of these companies, such as office-leasing startup WeWork, rely on a market that could violently contract in a downturn."
Enjoy the reading, have a great day gents!
From the  WSJ, FYI,David
Rich Valuations Don’t Mean There’s a Tech ‘Bubble’A driver checks the customer app for ride-sharing service Uber 
Technologies, which has a nominal valuation of $40 billion, partly 
because of the influx of nontraditional pre-IPO investors. 
Getty Images
By Christopher Mims
Dec. 29, 2014 7:18 p.m. ET
Investors have been cautious about technology companies since 
the first tech bubble, when startups with no revenue and sky-high 
valuations disappeared almost overnight after markets came to their 
senses. And if we define “bubble” as a stock-market bubble, tech isn’t 
in one.That doesn’t change the fact that money is pouring into 
startups, and they are spending it recklessly, whether on perks for 
high-value employees or record rents for office space in San Francisco 
and elsewhere.“There are pockets of exuberance,” says 
Scott Kupor,
managing partner at venture-capital firm Andreessen Horowitz. 
“There are definitely some [valuations] that cause you to scratch your 
head and say ‘gee, we’re not sure how people get to these numbers.’ ”What’s
different in 2014 from the bubble that climaxed in 2000 is how money is
getting into these companies. Vast pools of capital—including 
institutional investors and sovereign-wealth funds—are seeking returns 
amid near-zero interest rates. They have figured out that one way to get
them is by funding companies earlier in their life cycles, before they 
go public. That’s the short explanation for the stratospheric valuations
of companies like Uber Technologies, whose nominal worth is $40 
billion.The way the venture-capital game traditionally works is 
that limited partners with all the money hand it to venture capitalists,
who are supposed to have all the expertise.Now, everyone 
considers himself an expert in which tech companies deserve money, and 
how much. Conventional VCs seek giant payoffs when they exit their 
investments, to offset losses on most of the companies they fund. But 
today’s large institutional investors are happy with returns that beat 
the broader stock market, says Mr. Kupor. So they are piling on.As
Upfront Ventures VC 
Mark Suster
outlined in a July blog post, hedge funds, mutual funds and even 
big corporations are making pre-IPO investments in ways that are 
expanding the available pool of cash and shouldering aside traditional 
VCs.Smaller investors also are getting in on the game, through 
seed-stage investments. That trend will likely accelerate, thanks to the
crowdfunding provisions of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act that
will soon allow anyone to participate in the earliest rounds of 
financing.
Economist Nouriel Roubini, known as ‘Dr. Doom,’ has voiced concern about tech and social-media stocks.
TK
Many startup founders view this investment as necessary to 
capture markets before their competitors can, as they race for mindshare
and real estate on your smartphone’s home screen. But that also means 
these startups are losing money even if they have significant revenue, 
because they are using their war chest to buy a share of the market. 
That’s how 2014 isn’t so different from 2000.What’s different is
pretty much everything else: Nearly all of these companies insist that 
they could make money if they wanted. The “unit economics” of their 
business models work out, they tell themselves and their investors, 
meaning that at least they aren’t losing money on every transaction.But
they are losing money on other things, whether it’s sales and marketing
or capital spending to buy or build assets they can then turn into 
services, which many are selling on a subscription basis.“Right 
now money is certainly chasing growth,” says 
Brian O’Malley,
a partner at VC firm Accel. “It’s not totally blind growth. They 
do care about unit math and retention, but growth is certainly the most 
important factor.”This is where I grow skeptical. Every hot tech
company I can think of, from “sharing economy” giants such as Uber and 
Airbnb, to enterprise and financial-tech companies like 
Hortonworks
(big data) and Lending Club (peer-to-peer financing) face threats
that could cause them to fall short of current valuations. Those 
threats include regulation and competition, but the biggest one is the 
same as it ever was: Whether there are enough people and companies out 
there willing to buy their stuff. And some of these companies, 
such as office-leasing startup WeWork, rely on a market that could 
violently contract in a downturn.Many of them could make an 
initial public offering in 2015. Box (enterprise storage), Uber and 
dozens of others have said they are working on an IPO, or they are 
rumored to be. There are a record 48 pre-IPO private companies in the 
U.S. valued at $1 billion or more, according to Dow Jones VentureSource.
A handful will be acquired by public companies riding their own 
relatively generous valuations, but many will have to go public to pay 
back early investors.The bull market is going to turn 
eventually. Economist 
Nouriel Roubini,
sometimes known as “Dr. Doom,” has pegged the unwinding at 
sometime in 2016. He told Yahoo Finance that tech and social-media 
stocks are especially stretched.On the other side are all the 
investors betting that tech startups are creating lasting value, and 
that they can survive any downturn—or at least that pre-IPO investors 
can get out before a slump hits.It isn’t that I don’t believe 
all these earnest promoters of transformational tech companies. I agree 
with social theorist 
Jeremy Rifkin,
who argues that we are in a “third industrial revolution,” for 
which these companies are laying the foundation. It’s just that I’m not 
sure these pre-IPO investors’ short- and medium-term interests are 
aligned with those of the “dumb money” 
That’s
why I’d urge caution for anyone looking at these companies, at any 
stage. It’s common these days to talk about whether a startup is in line
with its “comparables,” in terms of revenue and spending, but that’s a 
measure unhinged from fundamentals in a market that’s overheating. When 
the correction comes—and it will—here’s what will go first: All the 
companies whose markets weren’t, in retrospect, as big as claimed.—Follow Christopher Mims on Twitter @Mims or write to him at user@domain.com 
