By Isaac Arnsdorf | 05/11/2016 02:00 PM EDT
With help from Brianna Gurciullo and Mary Lee
ZOMBIE BILL: The heavily lobbied Arizona Indian gaming bill, which failed last fall, might make yet another comeback. According to a PI tipster, the measure is on a list at the Rules Committee and could come up before the July recess. Though it failed to garner two-thirds to pass on suspension, there was a simple majority. The sponsor, Rep. Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), told PI "it's still something I strongly support and intend to pursue."
The Keep the Promise Act (H.R. 308) was one of the issues named in last quarter's biggest lobbying contract: the Gila River Indian Community's $690,000 deal with Akin Gump. The tribe, which has casinos in the Phoenix area, wants to stop the Tohono O'odham Nation from opening its own. Tohono O'odham's lobbying drive isn't far behind, paying $430,000 to Dentons.
JOINT FUNDRAISERS: Former Ohio Gov. Ted Strickland formed a new joint fundraising committee with Katie McGinty, the Democrat running against Pat Toomey in Pennsylvania. Their campaign committees as well as Midwest Values PAC, created by Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), are participating in Progressive Victory 2016. Toomey has outraised McGinty by more than 5 to 1 ($20,086,730 to $3,812,019), according to OpenSecrets. In Ohio, incumbent Rob Portman has outraised Strickland by more than 3 to 1 ($18,238,407 to $5,251,529). 
- Roy Blunt, Richard Burr and John McCain also created a new joint fundraising committee. Their principal campaign committees and PACs affiliated with them have formed the Blunt Burr McCain Joint Victory Committee. All three incumbents have so far outraised their opponents by millions of dollars in Missouri, North Carolina and Arizona.
- General Motors is hosting a lunch fundraiser Wednesday for Rep. Alma Adams (D-N.C.) featuring Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.).
- Marco Rubio will speak next week at a fundraiser for Florida Lt. Gov. Carlos Lopez-Cantera, who's running to succeed him. The invitation names Cesar Conda, Rubio's former chief of staff now with Navigators Global, Charlie Black of Prime Policy, Susan Nelson of Navigators Global, Dirk Van Dongen and Jade West of the National Wholesaler-Distributors Association, C. Boyden Gray, and Gerret Copeland.
HAPPY WEDNESDAY! T minus one day until the Trump-Ryan summit. Please send tips to user@domain.com.
JOBS REPORT:
- Laura MacCleery as Consumer Reports' new vice president of consumer policy and mobilization. She was a director of regulatory affairs for the Center for Science in the Public Interest and a director of government relations for the Center for Reproductive Rights.
- Dan Tangherlini, former Washington, D.C., city administrator and former administrator of the General Services Administration, has joined the government technology firm SeamlessDocs to open and lead its federal services arm.
- The U.S. Global Leadership Coalition, which advocates for the U.S. International Affairs Budget, added former Senators Jon Kyl, Jon Huntsman, and Joe Lieberman to its National Advisory Council last week, bringing the number of former Cabinet officials, U.S. Senators and Representatives on the council to 60. 
PUERTO RICO WATCH: House Republicans will introduce a bill today keeping bond investors first in line for payments before retirees receive their pensions, reports Colin Wilhelm for POLITICO. Citizens Against Government Waste has been backing the bill with radio ads - connecting Puerto Rico's debt crisis to Wall Street. Several congressional members on the fence or leaning yes include Reps. Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), Alex Mooney (R-W.Va.), Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.) and Cresent Hardy (R-Nev.). So far, no Democrats are expected to support the bill at the committee level.
UNFRIENDED: GOP leaders angrily responded to allegations that Facebook suppressed news stories by conservative platforms from the Trending section of the users' news feeds, POLITICO's Tony Romm reports. Facebook's agenda in Washington includes hiring high-skilled foreign workers in the U.S. and persuading officials to buy ads for the platform. The company has also agreed to provide financial and other support for the presidential nominating conventions. Peter Thiel, a Facebook board member, has signed up as a Donald Trump delegate in California. Facebook continues to tout that the company has not censored or manipulated its news feed.
LOOK AGAIN: Democratic lawmakers are asking American Geophysical Union to refuse monetary contributions from ExxonMobil, Elana Schor and Andrew Restuccia report for POLITICO. Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) sent a letter on Friday regarding the group's evaluation of the oil company's approach to climate policy. AGU President Margaret Leinen responded to another letter last month that the group's board voted to continue taking money from Exxon.
BATTLEGROUNDS: Lobbyists are turning to focus on grassroots advocacy as members of Congress have all eyes and ears zoned in on campaigning for reelection, reports Megan Wilson for The Hill. Groups heavy on the campaign trail include Sustainable Rx Pricing, the Coalition for Medicare Choices and America Forward coalition. "As we see more and more gridlock in D.C., trades and corporations are looking for new ways to push the public policy initiatives, and the election just really serves as an important catalyst to take messages outside of the Beltway and into battleground states," said David Barnhart, a founding partner of Locust Street Group, a grassroots advocacy firm.
ON THE HILL:
- T Bone Burnett, Duke Fakir, Rosanne Cash, Rodney Crowell and other artists appeared in Longworth today to support the Fair Play Fair Pay Act, which would make broadcasters pay royalties to artists and labels. J. Daniel Walsh and Mark Valente lobby for the musicFIRST Coalition, whose members include the Recording Academy and the Recording Industry Association of America.
- Roughly 100 racing business owners and industry leaders are on the Hill with the Specialty Equipment Market Association to support H.R. 4715/S.2659, the Recognizing the Protection of Motorsports Act of 2016, to make clear that it is legal to modify a street vehicle into a racecar used exclusively at the track. 
- General Stan McChrystal, Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Rep. Vern Buchanan (R-Fla.), Stuart Rothenberg, and pollster Frank Luntz will speak to the American International Auto Dealers Association's fly-in today. (h/t CRAFT)
- Another fly-in today: the Convenience Distribution Association.
NEW PAC REGISTRATIONS:
General Electric Company-GE Appliances Political Action Committee (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Lobbyist/Registrant PAC)
Never HRC (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Women Vote Trump (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld: United States Pharmacopeial Convention
Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck, LLP: Alaska Communications Systems
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP: Assured Guaranty Corp.
CFM Strategic Communications (Conkling Fiskum & McCormick): The Bus Coalition
Cornerstone Government Affairs, LLC: H&R Block
Federal Advocates, Inc.: Los Medanos Community Healthcare District
Fennemore Craig: American Share Insurance
Foley & Lardner LLP: Endo Pharmaceuticals
Foley Hoag LLP: Editas Medicines, Inc.
Franklin Square Group, LLC: Drone Manufacturers Alliance
Infineon Technologies Americas Corp.: Infineon Technologies Americas Corp.
Jackson Lewis PC: Restaurant Associates
McBee Strategic Consulting, LLC: Virgin Galactic
National Association to Protect Children Education Fund: National Association to Protect Children Education Fund
Rich Feuer Anderson: Equity Dealers of America
Squire Patton Boggs: Los Angeles 2024 Exploratory Committee
The Nardelli Group: Alexium, Inc.
The Nardelli Group: The Boston Beer Company
The Smith-Free Group: AquaBlok, Ltd
The Smith-Free Group: Universal Corporation
NEW LOBBYING TERMINATIONS:
Ms. Catherine McCullough: Alliance Surgical Distributors
Steve Buyer Group: JB Advocacy (on behalf of Huron Consulting)
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
