Dear All,
Here are a few more comments on ALPIPMOD.
Ideas are probably not very well ordered.  First, you should try for a 3 year
project
and second, although here for most of the next three months (apart from odd days) I
probably
couldn't justify a meeting. I am intending on resubmitting another proposal to the October
EU round. This one will involve some of the group from ADVICE. It's aim will be to develop
a daily MSLP dataset for Europe and the Atlantic (30-70N by 70W-50E). After the dataset
is produced in the first year, the second and third year will see various analyses
performed
and comparisons of several GCM runs performed at the Hadley Centre. This new project
will probably go to 2.4.1 which will be a different area from yours which will be 2.1.4.
Thus I
would hope that your proposal could be developed over email.
The above dataset would go back to 1850. This is the period which from the IMPROVE
project
is just beyond how far we think we can reliably go back with daily data. Several papers
from
the IMPROVE poject (Moberg et al., 2000 in JGR and several others in press in a special
issue
of Climatic Change) have come to the about 1870 date. We have much earlier data for the 8
sites but ensuring strict homogeneity of the daily series seems doubtful for some types of
extreme measures prior to about 1870. Pressure seems better than temperature. Some sites
are better than others. Monthly is fine for all.
All the IMPROVE and ADVICE data can be used by the ALPIPMOD project. I have a summer
student updating the 51 monthly MSLP sites from ADVICE, amongst other things.
As for your ideas, I think you need some overarching theme. The atlas and CD of all
the data may be one, but it also needs to address some scientific issues which can be
shown to have relevance to the public.
I like the idea of making use of the Alpine orography looking at changes in lapse
rates and
the use of high and low elevation air pressures. The latter is a totally independent
method of
looking at the warming and can be used back to the late 18th century. The Alps have the
longest records of any mountaineous records of any region of the world.  Also I am a
strong
advocate of changes in the influence of features such as the NAO (and other circulation
indicators) on surface climate. You can clearly look at these changes over the last 200
years with all the data you have.
Another important issue to a lot of climatologists is the relative surface warming
compared
to the MSU2LT data in the lower troposphere. Although this is hemispheric in extent, we
can
look with the longer Alpine records as to changes in lower level lapse rates over 200+
years.
Related to this tropical ice caps are disappearing at alarming rates in Peru, Tanzania and
in Tibet (Lonnie Thompson's work). Lonnie has calculated that the ice cap on Kilimanjaro
will not be there by 2015 at its present rate of retreat. Lonnie has some local
temperature
series for about 40 years which show a small warming yet the ice caps are going fast. Why?
These ice caps have all been cored and have ice during the MWP times yet some aren't
producing layers now !
My idea is to use the better known histories of the Alpine glaciers to see if they
are
also melting at accelerated rates than simple temperature averages would imply. Keith
mentioned the forward modelling approaches to determine positions in the past (and then
relate these to moraine termini). Do these models still function in the last 20 years?
Lonnie
thinks a lot of the tropical melting is due to sublimation, which isn't accounted for by
the
degree day models. The elevational sunshine records may be important here and with
temperature a particular season may be much more important than the other three.
All the above is just ideas, but getting all the data together (instrumental and tree
ring
as well glacier termini and mass balance) allows us to be able to model the glaciers
better than
anywhere else. All Europeans will be interested in whether Alpine glaciers are going to
disappear and there will be clear impacts on biodiversity at the high elevations and
tourism.
Another impact area is on the use of glacier meltwater and runoff in hydropower
generation.
These are all good issues to use in the social and economic pages that need to be written.
Cheers
Phil
