Dear Mike ( and all) 
Some remarks in response to your recent message
I believe strongly that the strength in our discussion
Mike , I agree very much with the above sentiment. My concern was motivated by the possibility of expressing an impression of more concensus than might actually exist . I suppose the earlier talk implying that we should not 'muddy the waters' by including contradictory evidence worried me . IPCC is supposed to represent concensus but also areas of uncertainty in the evidence. Of course where there are good reasons for the differences in series ( such as different seasonal responses or geographic bias) it is equally important not to overstress the discrepancies or suggest contradiction where it does not exist. 
And I
I sincerely hope this was not implied in anything I wrote - It was not intended 
Again I agree. Also , I am not sure which version of the curve you are now refering to. The original draft did show our higher frequency curve i.e. the version with background changes effectively filtered out (intended to emphasise the extreme interannual density excursions and their coincidence with volcanic eruptions) . The relevant one here is a smoothed version in which low-frequency changes are preserved. I can supply this and it will be in press by the time of the next reworking of the text.
Your above point on correct scaling is relevant also to Phil's curve which was not originally calibrated ( in a formal regression sense) with the summer temperature data - it was just given the same mean and standard deviation over a specific period. Hence the issue of equivelent scaling of all series is vital if we are to discuss specific period temperature anomalies in different series or compare temperature trends in absolute degrees. 
I am not sure this is true if the relevant series of ours is used. We need to reexamine the curves and perhaps look at the different regional and seasonal data in the instrumental record and over common regions in the different reconstructed series. We would be happy to work with you on this. Also remember that our (density )series does not claim hemispheric or annual coverage.  
The best approach here is for us to circulate a paper addressing all the above points. I'll do this as soon as possible.
I don't think that
fair enough - but I repeat that the magnitude of the  observed warming in the 20th century is different in summer and annual data 
This is certainly relevant and sounds really interesting. I need to look at this in detail. The effect of the including tree-ring data or not, is moderated by the importance of the particular series in the various reconstructions ( relative coefficient magnitudes). There is certainly some prospect of affecting (reducing) the apparent magnitude of the 20th century warming by loading on high-pass filtered chronologies , but equally a danger of exagerating it if the series used or emphasised in th calibration have been fertilized by CO2 or something else. As you know we ( Tim, Phil and I ) would love to collaborate with you on exploring this issue (and the role of instrumental predictors) in the various approaches.
The key here is knowing much more about the role of specific predictors through time and their associated strengths and weaknesses. 
I certainly do not disagree with you - the scale of your input data undoubtedly must contain more information than our set . I have never implied anything to the contrary. I do not believe that our data are likely to tell us more than summer variability at northern latitudes . The discussion is only about how close our and your data likely represent what they are calibrated against , back in time. Let's not imagine a disagreement where there is none.
Yes indeed. The reviewing will lead to much comment and likely disagreement by the masses. This is the way of these things. It is always a thankless task undertaking these drafting jobs and I think you are doing a good job. Tommorrow I'll send some very minor comments on typos and the like if you want them - or have you picked many of them up? Anyway , keep up the good work .
best wishes
Keith