Mike and Tom and others
My silence to do with the specific issue of the Soon and Baliunas conveys general strong
agreement with all the general remarks (and restatement of many in various forms ) by Tom
Crowley, Mike Mann, Neville Nichols and now Tom Wigley regarding the scientific value of
the paper and its obvious methodological flaws.
I have to say that I tended towards the "who cares" camp , in as much as those who are
concerned about the science should see through it anyway . I also admit to thinking that
some of you seem a little paranoid (especially in the implication that Climate Research is
a pro sceptic journal) but I am changing my mind regarding the way the "meaning" of the BS
paper is being presented to the wider public - in response to some very poor recent
reporting in the British press and several requests from the US that indicate that those of
you who work there can not simply rely on the weight of good science eventually showing
through as regards the public perception . As Tom W. states , there are uncertainties and
"difficulties" with our current knowledge of Hemispheric temperature histories and valid
criticisms or shortcomings in much of our work. This is the nature of the beast  - and I
have been loathe to become embroiled in polarised debates that force too simplistic a
presentation of the state of the art or "consensus view". Having read Tom W's and Mike's
latest statements I now agree about the need to make some public comment on BS . (I too
have given my personal view of the work to David Appell who I assume is writing a balanced
view of this paper for Scientific American). I see little need to get involved in a over
detailed critic of all the points in the paper , because I am not sure what audience would
benefit from it, but the points made by those I listed above could usefully be fashioned
into a simple letter to Climate Research, signed by those who wish. This would then go on
record as a simple statement of refutation of the method employed and corresponding
limitation of the work for informing the "global warming " debate . This could be quickly
citable when talking to the media.
The one additional point I would make that seems to have been overlooked in the discussions
up to now , is the invalidity of assuming that the existence of a global Medieval Warm
period , even if shown to be as warm as the current climate , somehow negates the
possibility of enhanced greenhouse warming. The business of constructing a reliable climate
history is only one part of establishing the relative roles of natural and anthropogenic
forcings, now and in the future. Without reference to the roles of natural forcings in
recent and past times , comparisons with other periods are of very limited value anyway.
So I agree with Tom and Mike that something needs to go "on record" . The various papers
apparently in production, regardless of their individual emphasis or approaches, will find
their way in to the literature and the next IPCC can sift and present their message(s) as
it wishes., but in the meantime , why not a simple statement of the shortcomings of the BS
paper as they have been listed in these messages and why not in Climate Research?
Keith
