HYPOCRITICAL. Or, in other worlds, just a marketing move in order to appease Apple’s Western customers.
THAT IS, Apple would had NEVER so massively sold their phones to China without bowing to the Chinese PLA and surrendering the “privacy” of Apple's phones by means of granting the PLA some kind of easy, direct and surreptitious access to such devices.
"When Cook took the stage at Stanford University, he mentioned several initiatives Apple was working on to make federal payments more secure. But then he shifted quickly to a critique of unspecified parties that don’t do enough to protect privacy. He didn’t mention the U.S. government or any federal agency by name, but his comments reflected the anger many technology executives share about the U.S. government’s data collection practices and spying."
From the WSJ, FYI,David
2:52 pm  ET | Feb 13, 2015
Apple’s Tim Cook Skewers Those Who Don’t Protect PrivacyBy Damian Paletta and Danny YadronCook’s comments 
Friday reflected the anger many technology executives share about the 
U.S. government’s data collection practices and spying. — European Pressphoto AgencyApple  chief executive Tim Cook
delivered a fiery speech at a White House summit on cybersecurity 
Friday, hammering those he said compromise the right to privacy and 
security of people around the world.The speech sent a jolt through the summit,
which up until Cook’s speech had consisted of pledges from government 
officials and business executives to work more closely together to stop 
breaches.When Cook took the stage at Stanford University, he mentioned several
initiatives Apple was working on to make federal payments more secure. 
But then he shifted quickly to a critique of unspecified parties that 
don’t do enough to protect privacy. He didn’t mention the U.S. 
government or any federal agency by name, but his comments reflected the
anger many technology executives share about the U.S. government’s data
collection practices and spying.“If those of us in positions of responsibility fail to do everything 
in our power to protect the right of privacy, we risk something far more
valuable than money,” he said. “We risk our way of life.”“We must get this right,” he said. “History has shown us that 
sacrificing our right to privacy can have dire consequences. We still 
live in a world where all people are not treated equally. Too many 
people do not feel free to practice their religion, or express their 
opinion, or love who they choose.”Many people, he said, live “in a world in which that information can make the difference between life and death.”He did pledge to work more closely with the White House and Congress 
to improve data security, though he stopped short of saying what that 
cooperation might entail.