1.  Anti-racist scum attempting to mobilze against NSM in DC. NSM
members and other concerned Patriots to March in DC on April 19th, against
illegal immigration. Join with us in Solidarity. Downloadable flyer
available at:  www.nsm88.org
<<link>>
Washington, D.C.: Stop the Fascists on April 19
Thursday, March 27 2008 @ 11:13 PM PDT
Contributed by: Anonymous
Views: 101
The National Socialist Movement (Nazi Party) has called a march in DC
for April 19th, targeting non-white immigration and immigrants. They
have yet to announce time and place and have received no permits, but
we aren't taking any chances. Join us at 14th and Constitution at 10
AM on Sat, April 19th.
STOP the Nazis on April 19
<<link>>
The National Socialist Movement (Nazi Party) has called a march in DC
for April 19th, targeting non-white immigration and immigrants. They
have yet to announce time and place and have received no permits, but
we aren't taking any chances. Join us at 14th and Constitution at 10
AM on Sat, April 19th.
We are seeking time/place details on the Nazi march, but they are not
releasing any info other than DC and April 19th, though their video
shows the US Capitol from the Mall.
Assuming they do NOT release details, bikers will scout the length of
the Mall and other nearby potential staging areas beginning at 10 AM
searching for the Nazis and their assembly point. Once the Nazis are
located the whole group will march to this site and confront the
Nazis in force.
There is very little chance the Nazis will venture far from the Mall,
as it would be suicidal for them to show their faces somewhere like
Franklin Park, Farragut Square, or anywhere else in Chocolate City!
This limits the area we must patrol to the Mall and immediately
surrounding areas. Since the Mall is empty prior to 10AM, it is also
unlikely they will deploy prior to that time.
Therefore, we will patrol all day beginning at 10AM, until they are
found and dealt with. We are seeking further details on their march
and will post it as we get it. Please post any information you find
as comments to this article!
Their website is htttp://www.nsm88.org/index2.html . Remove one t
from htttp and paste the results in your browser to check them out.
This site contains a link to the youtube video pumping their march,
which has already been removed from youtube (in response to
complaints) once and reposted.
