How would I be able to speak out in michigan regarding these issues in
healthcare (and many other issues that need to be addressed by the true
american people)?  I live in cadillac michigan...i sent u my initial e-mail
a while ago about this.  Are there large meetings here in Michigan in which
I would be able to be a professional guest speaker?  Like I said before, I
am not a member or affiliated with the national socialist movement...but I
am a member of the American Socialist Party, and have many of the same
opinions and viewpoints on issues and topics that the NSM also holds.  Like
I stated before, I'm a white american of german and scottish decent...and
believe that I could help the NSM movement...in Michigan at least....get
together and organize to speak out regarding these issues to all of the
public.
Not only that, but also be able to state the issues to the public so that
people will listen to your issues regarding healthcare and many other
topics, and not just disregard them just because they are coming from the
NSM because they are under the impression that the NSM is just a bunch of
racists.  We could all help inform them of our viewpoints, which are shared
by people who are not part of your organization as well.
It could even help the party in the media by shining a positive light on
them because it would help people who dislike the party recognize them as
doing things that are good for the country, and showing them that the NSM is
very serious about helping Americans and also serious about politics....as
many people are ill-informed of many things the NSM stands for (besides the
fact that they stand for white pride).
Hitler spoke to millions because his ideas were for the people of Germany,
and to help them in their struggle during the times of need.... to build
them up and make them strong.... to bring the people together to support the
country to get the things they needed.  We can do this.  Not only will the
people listen and get the ideas pushed, but it will help  get people to
recognize the NSM as a very serious political party, and allow them to
understand that they are serious about helping the country.  Though they may
disagree with some of the issues, there is no way they would speak out
against the same people who share ideas for the greater good of America.
Thanks,
Mike McDonald
P.S.  Is there anyone in Michigan who I can contact about this?  Is there a
leader of the NSM in Michigan that is reachable by phone or e-mail?
On Thu, May 1, 2008 at 1:31 PM, William Herring <user@domain.com>
