Dear Mike,
Regarding my last mesage,
In case you wonder about my background, I have attached a 2-page version of
my CV, in rich-text format, file bjhmcv2.rtf
My experience, ranging from laboratory work with CO2 fluxes and marine
algae, through to organising events at the UN climate negotiations, combined
with a strong mathematical and linguistic background, is a somewhat unusual
combination which perhaps makes me more a "jack of all trades" than a
specialist. On the other hand, this has given me an interdisciplinary
overview which may be valuable for bridging the gap between science and
policy, appreciating dilemmas and uncertainties, and communicating these
around the world.
However, Kyoto left me very disillusioned by the apparent lack of connection
between climate science and policy -in the protocol there was not one
sentence discussing what we need to do to stabilise the climate in the long
term, based on scientific predictions. This made me wonder, what is the use
of my intricate research on air-sea CO2 exchange, if the policymakers ignore
even the most basic knowledge? I left UEA and started working at home,
developing interactive web graphics showing the link between per-capita
emissions and global climate change. Eventually, I realised that working
alone was neither effective nor sustainable, and this has led to unfortunate
personal circumstances. Now I need the stimulus of working again in a team,
in an institute, even if this requires sacrificing of my own ideas. I am not
just looking for a "job", it is more important to me, to rejoin the research
community, and feel I am making the best use of my skills. I hope you can
help, if only to discuss the possibilites.
I have also attached a zip package containing the interactive java applets
which I developed,
it's only 90K including supporting webpages and historical data.
Once unzipped (all in one directory), you have to open the file
"starthere.html" in any java-enabled web browser.
I can send a self-extracting windows version if you prefer, on the other
hand you may find it easier just to look at the website
www.chooseclimate.org/applet/
Currently, this uses only very crude formulae loosely based on IPCC SAR and
GCI's C&C, -but the presentation is unique: you can adjust the parameters
just by dragging controls with a mouse, and all the linked plots respond
instantly. It's hard to describe in words, which is why I encourage you to
have a look.
Ben
****************
Dr Ben Matthews user@domain.com,
