Dear Colleagues:
I am sending you a copy of Ged Davis' IPCC-SRES Zero Order Draft on
storylines and scenarios.  The text is appended below, but I am also
attaching versions in MS Word and in Rich Text formats so that you can
better view the graphics.
Please send any comments directly to Ged Davis at 
Ged.R.Davis@si.simis.co
Regards,
Anne Johnson
****************************************************************************
******
Zero Order Draft
IS99
Storylines and Scenarios
February, 1998
Ged Davis et al
For Comment Only
Draft Paper for the IPCC Special Report on Emissions Scenarios
********************************* 
Contents
1. Introduction
2. Scenarios - overview
3. Golden Economic Age (A1)
4. Sustainable Development (B1)
5. Divided World (A2)
6. Regional Stewardship (B2)
7. Scenario comparisons
8. Conclusions
Appendix 1: Scenario quantification
1. Introduction
The IS99 scenarios have been constructed to explore future developments in
the global environment with special reference to the production of GHGs.
These scenarios are being developed in three phases:
- Phase 1: the Special Report on Emissions Scenarios (SRES) team is
preparing a set of scenarios for wide public discussion, which is the
subject of this note,
- Phase 2: the scenarios will be placed on the World Wide Web, subject to
public scrutiny, and suggestions for relevant modification of the scenarios
will be sought, 
- Phase 3: the scenarios will be finalised for peer review, incorporating
suggestions received during the public review, by April 1999.
Phase 1 centred on a facilitated open process for Lead Authors at workshops
in Paris, Vienna and Utrecht.  The scenarios developed allow for a broad
range of GHG emissions and provide a basis for reflection on policy.
1.1	What are scenarios?
Scenarios are pertinent, plausible, alternative futures.  Their pertinence,
in this case, is derived from the need for climate change modelers to have
a basis for assessing the implications of future possible paths for
Greenhouse Gas Emissions (GHGs).  Their plausibility is tested by peer
review, in an open process, which includes their publication on the World
Wide Web.
There are clearly an infinite number of possible alternative futures to
explore.  We have consciously applied the principle of Occam's Razor ,
seeking the minimum number of scenarios to provide an adequate basis for
climate modelling and challenge to policy makers.  The alternative futures
constructed are not, and cannot be, value free since like any work they
self-evidently reflect the team's view of the possible.  The scenarios
should not be construed as being desirable or undesirable in their own
right and have been built as descriptions of possible, rather than
preferred, developments.  There can be no objective assessment of the
probability of the scenarios, although in the prevailing zeitgeist  some
will appear to individuals to be more likely than others.  Scenarios are
built to clarify ignorance rather than present knowledge -- the one thing
we can be sure of is that the future will be very different from any of
those we describe!
2. Scenarios - overview
2.1	Scenarios: key questions and dimensions
Developing scenarios for a period of one hundred years is a relatively new
field.  Within that period we might expect two major technological
discontinuities, a major shift in societal values and a change in the
balance of geopolitical power.  A particular difficulty is that people are
not trained to think in these time-spans, are educated in narrow
disciplines and our ability to model large-systems, at the global level, is
still in its infancy.  Additionally, most databases do not go back much
further than 50 years and many less than that.  How best to integrate
demography, politico-economic, societal and technological knowledge with
our understanding of ecological systems?  Scenarios can be used as an
integration tool, allowing an equal role for intuition, analysis and
synthesis.
Terminology
Storylines, Scenarios and Scenario Families
Storyline: a narrative description of a scenario (or a family of
scenarios), highlighting the main scenario characteristics, relationships
between key driving forces and the dynamics of the scenarios.
Scenario: projections of a potential future, based on a clear logic and a
quantified storyline.
Scenario family: one or more scenarios which have the same demographic,
politico-societal, economic and technological storyline.
Scenario Classification
Our approach has been to develop a set of four "scenario families".  The
storylines of each of these scenario families describes a demographic,
politico-economic, societal and technological future.  Within each family
one or more scenarios explore global energy industry and other developments
and their implications for Greenhouse Gas Emissions and other pollutants.
These are a starting point for climate impact modelling.
The scenarios we have built explore two main questions for the 21st
century, neither of which we know the answer to:
- Can adequate governance -- institutions and agreements -- be put in place
to manage global problems?
- Will society's values focus more on enhancing material wealth or be more
broadly balanced, incorporating environmental health and social well-being.
The way we answer these questions leads to four families of scenarios:
- Golden Economic Age (A1): a century of expanded economic prosperity with
the emergence of global governance
- Sustainable Development (B1): in which global agreements and
institutions, underpinned by a value shift, encourages the integration of
ecological and economic goals
- Divided World (A2): difficulty in resolving global issues leads to a
world of autarkic regions
- Regional Stewardship (B2): in the face of weak global governance there is
a focus on managing regional/local ecological and equity
Within these scenario families we examine plausible energy industry and
other developments which will contribute to GHG emissions.  Although the
storylines cannot have explicit climate change policy measures in them
there are examples of indirect mitigation measures in some of the scenarios.
The scenario quantifications of the main indicators related to growth of
population and economy, the characteristics of the energy system and the
associated greenhouse gas emissions all fall within the range of prior
studies .
3.	Golden Economic Age (A1)
This scenario family entitled "Golden Economic Age", describes rapid and
successful economic development.  The primary drivers for economic growth
and development "catch up" are the strong human desire for prosperity, high
human capital (education), innovation, technology diffusion, and free trade.
The logic of successful development assumes smooth growth with no major
political discontinuities or catastrophic events.  The scenario family's
development model is based on the most successful historical examples of
economic growth, i.e., on the development path of the now affluent OECD
economies.  Historical analogies of successful economic "catching up" can
be found in the Scandinavian countries, Austria, Japan, and South Korea.
"Intangible" assets (human capital, stable political climate) take
precedence over "tangible" assets (capital, resource, and technology
availability) in providing the conditions for a take-off into accelerated
rates of development.  Once these conditions are met, free trade enables
each region to access knowledge, technology, and capital to best deploy its
respective comparative economic and human resource advantages.
Institutional frameworks are able to successfully sustain economic growth
and also to handle the inevitable volatility that rapid economic growth
entails.
The "intangible" prerequisites for accelerated rates of economic growth
also offer long-term development perspectives for regions that are poorly
endowed with resources or where current economic prospects are not
auspicious, such as Sub-Saharan Africa.  There, for instance, fostered
regional trade and capital availability enhance the pull-effects of a
strong South African economy.  In other regions, growth may be fuelled by
domestic know-how and high human capital valued at the international
market.  An example of this is the thriving software industry of the Indian
subcontinent.  In yet other regions, growth could be stimulated by the
expansion of regional economic partnerships and free trade arrangements
(e.g., extensions of NAFTA and the European Union).
The main difference with the historical OECD experience is a certain
acceleration in time and space, (i.e., "leapfrogging") made possible by
better access to knowledge and technology, a consequence of the high-tech
and free trade characteristics of development.  Successful catching up
becomes pervasive; all parts of the "developing world" participate, though
with differences in timing.  The final outcome is that practically all
parts of the world achieve high levels of affluence by the end of the 21st
century, even if disparities will not have disappeared entirely.  The
current distinction between "developed" and "developing" countries will in
any case no longer be appropriate.
As in the past, high growth (a "growing cake") eases distributional
conflicts.  Everyone reaps the benefits of rapid growth, rising incomes,
improved access to services, and rising standards of living.  The economic
imperatives of markets, free trade, and technology diffusion (i.e.,
competition) that underlie the high growth rates provide for efficient
allocation of resources.  Efficiency and high productivity are the positive
by-products of the highly competitive nature of the economy.  They also
provide the economic resources for distributive and social measures
required for a stable social and political climate, vital for sustaining
high growth rates in human capital, productivity, innovation, and hence
economic growth.
The economic development focus explains its central metric: the degree of
economic development as reflected in per capita income levels (GDP at
market exchange rates as well as at purchasing power parity rates).  The
principal driver is the desire for prosperity, all major driving forces are
closely linked to prosperity levels, with actual causality links going in
both directions.  For example, demographic variables co-evolve with
prosperity: mortality declines (i.e. life expectancy increases) as a
function of higher incomes (better diets and affordable medical treatment).
In turn, changes in the social values underlying the fertility transition
also pave the way for greater access to education, modernisation of
economic structures, and market orientation.  These are key for innovating
and diffusing the best practice technologies underlying the high
productivity, and hence economic growth, of the scenario.
3.1	Key Scenario Drivers and their Relationships
3.11	 Population and Economic Development
High education, stable social relations, and incentives for innovation and
experimentation are the preconditions for productivity increases underlying
rapid economic development in this world-- as a result, social, economic,
and demographic development are highly correlated .
The link between demographic and economic variables in the scenario
corresponds to present empirical observations: the affluent live long and
have few children.  High per capita incomes are thus associated with both
low mortality and low fertility. Together, this results in rather low
population growth, characterised in addition by a considerable "greying" of
the population. 
This family of scenarios combines high life expectancy with low fertility,
where OECD rates are assumed to stabilize at current (below replacement)
levels, and developing countries follow a similar transition by the
mid-21st century.  Fertility rates range between 1.3 to 1.7 children per
woman.  Life expectancy can approach some 95 years, with a regional
variation between 80 and 95 years.  Global population grows to some 9
billion by 2050, and declines to 7 billion by 2100, the result of continued
below replacement fertility in all regions.   
Population ageing results in economic growth rates somewhat lower than
historical experience, especially in the OECD countries.  Economic growth
rates slow over time in proportion to the reduction of the potentially
economic active population (age 15 to 65), which decline in some regions to
50 percent compared to the historical average of approximately 70 percent.  
For "developing countries", economic growth is based on the most successful
cases of economic "catch up" found in history.  The economic growth profile
of Japan after WW II served as a model to delineate the upper bounds of
possible GDP growth for all regions.  Consistent with growth theory, GDP
expansion initially accelerates, passes through a peak, in which growth
rates around 10 percent per year can be sustained for several decades, and
then declines.  Once the economic and industrial base is firmly established
and the economy matures, growth rates decline with increasing income
levels.  This reflects saturation effects and a higher emphasis on quality
rather than quantity at high income levels. 
The global economy in the "Golden Economic Age" expands at an average
annual rate of three percent per year to 2100.  This is about the same rate
as the global average since 1850 and in this respect may simply be
considered "dynamics as usual".  Non-Annex-I economies expand with an
average annual growth rate of four percent per year, twice the rate of
Annex-I economies.  By approximately 2030 Non-Annex-I GDP surpasses that of
the Annex-I economies.  Per capita income disparities are reduced, but
differences between regions are not entirely eliminated.  Non-Annex-I per
capita income reaches the 1990 Annex-I level (14,000 $/capita) by around
2040.  By 2100 per capita income would approach 100,000 $/capita in Annex-I
countries and 70,000 $/capita in Non-Annex-I countries.
3.12	Equity
Equity issues are not a major concern in the world, but is rather a
by-product of the high rates of economic development.  Existing per capita
income gaps between regions close up in a similar way as between Western
Europe and Japan compared to the US in the 20th century. Disparities
continue to persist between regions, but more so within particular regions.
Nevertheless, the high economic growth rates require a certain degree of
income distribution.  Extreme income disparities are found to be negative
influencing factors for economic growth.  Additionally, fair income
distribution only assures the large consumer markets and the social
cohesion and stability required for the realisation of high economic growth.
3.13	Settlement patterns/communication
Communication technologies and styles are highly homogeneous and extremely
developed -- rather than a "global village" future, this is one of "global
cities."  Existing trends towards urbanisation continue, as cities provide
the highest "network externalities" for the educational and R&D-intensive
economic development pattern underlying the scenario.  Regional differences
in settlement patterns persist.  They range from fragmented, compact, but
large (i.e., 20+ million inhabitants) cities that depopulate their
respective rural hinterlands in Latin America to urban "corridors"
connected by high capacity communication and transport networks (in Asia).
Regional transport networks include high speed trains and maglevs, which
ultimately fuse short- and long-distance transport means into single
interconnected infrastructures.  In some parts of the world high-tech cars
take the place that high-tech trains occupy in other parts.  
The large urban agglomerates and the high transport demands of a high
material growth economy generate vast congestion constraints.  These are
solved by applying market-based instruments (prices) rather than
regulation.  Economic instruments include access and parking fees,
auctioning off the limited number of new car and truck licenses in
megacities, much along the lines of the current stringent Singapore model.
Therefore, even at very high income levels, car ownership rates could be
comparatively low in parts of the world.  In extremely densely populated
areas, cars remain a luxury rather than a means of mass transport (viz.
Hong Kong).  In areas with lower population density, car densities are high
(+1 car per inhabitant).  Car fuels could be either oil, synfuels,
electricity, or hydrogen.  Intercontinental transport is provided by
energy- and GHG-intensive hypersonic aircraft fuelled by methane or
hydrogen.  They are the physical transport equivalent of the high capacity
virtual communication links of a truly global economy.
3.14	Environmental Concerns/Ecological resilience
Ecological resilience is assumed to be high.  In and of themselves,
ecological concerns receive a low priority.  Instead, the valuation of
environmental amenities is strictly in economic terms, e.g., a function of
affluence.  Non-congestion, clean water and air, and recreational
possibilities in nature all assume increasing importance with rising
affluence, although preferences for environmental amenities may differ
across regions and income levels.  For instance, urban air quality and
human health are valued highly even at income levels lower than those
prevailing in England, where stringent air quality measures were introduced
after the "killer smog" of 1952.  Reduced particulate and sulphur air
pollution become a matter of major consumer preference at levels of $2,000
- 3,000/capita income in Asia.  Altogether, the concept of environmental
quality changes from "conservation" of nature to active "management" --and
marketing-- of natural and environmental amenities and services.
3.2	Scenarios
The core bifurcation (with respect to GHG emissions) of the scenario family
unfolds around alternative paths of technology development in the
agriculture and energy sectors.  In the energy sector, the central question
is how to manage the transition away from the current reliance on
conventional oil and gas.  In the agricultural sector, the key issue
concerns land productivity.
Alternative technology bifurcations lead to a number of scenarios embedded
and consistent within the overall theme of "prosperity via high
techologies".  All scenarios provide the high quantities of clean and
convenient energy forms and diverse, high quality food demanded in an
affluent world.  Because technological change is cumulative, it can go in
alternative, mutually exclusive directions, i.e., changes become "path
dependent".  Alternative directions unfold around the interrelated cluster
of variables of resource availability and conversion technologies in both
energy and agriculture.  For instance, new technologies may enable humanity
to tap either the vast quantities of fossil resources existing in the form
of coal, unconventional oil, and gas with technologies that are both highly
economic, efficient, and clean in terms of traditional pollutants, such as
particulates or sulphur.  Alternatively, technological change could unfold
favouring non-fossil technologies and resources, such as nuclear and
renewables. 
A similar bifurcation unfolds in the agricultural sector.  In one
sub-scenario, only incremental improvements are achieved in farming
practices and land productivity.  This is combined with a gradual global
diffusion of meat-based diets.  Both of these trends are land- (and
deforestation-) intensive.  Alternatively, global agriculture could move in
the direction of genetically engineered, high productivity crops and
"sea-farming," combined with a quality- and health-oriented diet based on
fish and vegetables, both of which are relatively less land intensive.  As
a result, GHG emissions range widely even for otherwise similar scenario
characteristics.
3.21	Energy Resources/Technology
Resource availability and technology are tightly interrelated.  The "Golden
Economic Age" of high productivity growth results from substantial
technological innovation.  Both contribute to economic growth, expansion of
accessible resources, and improved efficiency in resource use.  Factor
productivity improvements occur across the board for agricultural land,
materials, and energy.  Improvement rates largely follow long-term
historical trends and are entirely technology- and income- driven.  Energy
intensity (total commercial and traditional primary energy use per unit of
GDP) improves at an aggregate global rate of 1.5 percent per year.
Improvement rates vary across regions as a function of distance from the
productivity frontier and the turnover rates of capital stock.  Ceteris
paribus, improvement rates are higher in regions with currently lower
efficiency and greater than average GDP growth.  This assumes no particular
policy intervention or additional price regulation apart from the ones
consistent with a free market environment (i.e. price subsidies are
removed, and full costing principles are established). 
Per capita final energy use gradually converges as income gaps close.
Final energy use per capita in non-Annex-I countries would reach
approximately 85 GJ (2 tons of oil equivalent) by 2050 and approximately
125 GJ (3 toe) by 2100, i.e., about the current average of OECD countries
outside North America.  Despite improvements in productivity and
efficiency, the high income levels lead to resource use close to the upper
bounds of the scenarios available in the literature.  For instance, global
final energy use would increase to approximately 1000 EJ by 2100.
The scenarios developed are a function of the different directions taken by
technological change.  The key question is which primary resources may
become economically accessible in the future, and which technologies will
become available to convert these primary resources into the final goods
and services demanded by consumers.  In the energy area,
resources/technologies are key variables in determining the timing and
nature of the transition away from currently dominant conventional oil and
gas.
Four pathways are possible:
1. Progress across all resources and technologies.
2. "Clean coal" technologies: environmentally friendly except for GHG
emissions and possible resource extraction impacts.
3. "Oil/Gas": smooth transition from conventional to unconventional oil and
gas, tapping the vast occurrences of unconventional fossil fuels, including
methane clathrates.
4. "Bio-Nuclear": rapid technological progress in non-fossil supply and
end-use technologies, e.g. renewables, such as solar and biomass
combustion, nuclear and hydrogen-fuelled end-use devices, such as fuel cells.
For the scenario quantification, a number of contrasting cases,
characterised by the main energy form used in the second half of the 21st
century, have been evaluated with the aid of formal energy models:
1. The dominance of Non-Fossil fuels -- the "Bio-Nuclear" scenario (A1R).
2. The dominance of unconventional gas, including hydrates, and oil (A1G)
3. The dominance of "Clean Coal" (A1C)
A brief scenario taxonomy is given below.
Scenario	
Dominant	
Oil/Gas Resource	
Technology Improvements
Fuel	Availability	Coal	Oil/Gas	Non-fossil
A1R 	Non-fossil	Medium (<50 ZJ )	Low	Medium 	High
A1G 	Oil/Gas        	High (>75 ZJ)	Low	High	Low
A1C	 Coal	Low (<35 ZJ)	High	Low	Low
* 
Depending on the assumed availability of oil and gas, (low/medium/high) and
corresponding improvements in production and conversion technologies for
coal, oil/gas, and non-fossil technologies, different energy systems
structures unfold. For instance, in the dynamic technology cases, liquid
fuels from coal or unconventional oil/gas resources would become available
at less than $30  /barrel, with costs falling further by about one percent
per year with exploitation of learning curve effects.  Non-fossil
electricity (photovoltaics, new nuclear) would become available at costs of
less than 10 mills/kWh ($.01/kWh) and continue to improve further as a
result of learning curve effects.  The basic premise of the "dynamic
technology" scenarios is that energy services could be delivered at
long-run costs not higher than today, but with technologies having
radically different characteristics, including environmental.  In the event
that such technology dynamics do not materialise, energy costs and prices
would be significantly higher than suggested above -- illustrative model
runs suggest energy demand would be up to 20 percent lower for a fossil
scenario without significant cost improvements .
3.22	Agriculture
In the agricultural sector, two contrasting scenarios of land productivity
could unfold, depending on the nature of advances in agricultural
technologies.  However, CO2 emissions from land use changes could range
from 0.5 (low) to 1.5 (high) GtC by 2030 and  from -1 to -2 (low) to zero
(high) GtC emissions by 2100.  In the latter case tropical forests
essentially become depleted as a result of land-use conversions for
agriculture and biomass fuel plantations.  In the former case, land
productivity gains are so substantial that ploughing of marginal
agricultural land is no longer economically feasible and is abandoned,
following recent trends in the OECD.  The resulting expansion of forest
cover leads to a net sequestration of atmospheric CO2.
3.23	Scenario Quantification
An initial scenario quantification in terms of population, GDP, energy use,
and CO2 emissions for the three energy resource/technology sub-scenarios is
summarised in Appendix 1 .  The global scenario for 2100 is also summarised
in the form of a snowflake diagram.  All scenario quantifications are
tentative and subject to revisions.
[Figure: "Snowflake" for A1 scenarios]
3.24	CO2 Emissions
The diverging pathways of resource availability and technological change
characteristic of the three scenarios examined result in a wide range of
annual CO2 emissions: from 10 to 33 GtC by 2100. It is interesting to note
that the emissions of the two "fossil fuel" sub-scenarios, "clean coal" and
"oil and gas," are quite close to each other (33 CtC versus 29 GtC).
Continued reliance on oil and gas, coupled with demand growth, explain the
emission patterns for the oil/gas scenario. Coal is the only fossil
resource available in the "clean coal" scenario. Therefore, over time coal
is increasingly required for conversion into premium fuels such as
synliquids and syngas. This conversion "deepening" leads to a feedstock
premium for coal and increases the market potential of non-fossil fuels.
CO2 emissions are therefore not as high as in traditional coal-intensive
scenarios.
4.	Sustainable Development (B1)
The central elements of this scenario family include high levels of
environmental and social consciousness, successful governance including
major social innovation, and reductions in income and social inequality.
Successful forms of governance allow many problems which are currently hard
or difficult to resolve to fall within the competency of government and
other organisations.  Solutions reflect a wide stakeholder dialogue leading
to consent on international environmental and social agreements.  This is
coupled with bottom-up solutions to problems, which reflect wide success in
getting broad-based support within communities.
The concerns over global sustainable development, expressed in a myriad of
environmental and social issues, results in the eventual successful
management of the interaction between human activities and the biosphere.
While no explicit climate policy is undertaken, other kinds of initiatives
lead to lower energy use, and clean energy systems, which significantly
reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  Besides cleaning up air quality, there is
emphasis on improving the availability and  quality of water.
4.1	Key Scenario Drivers and their Relationships
4.11	Technological Development
High levels of technological development focused on achieving sustainable
development leads to high levels of material and energy saving, innovations
in emissions control technology, as well as labour productivity.  The
latter is essential to support the rapid growth in personal income, given
that a major increase in labour force participation is implicit in the
equity assumptions.  Technologies tend to be implemented in an industrial
ecology mode, implying a much more highly integrated form of industrial
production than at present.  Information technology achieves a global
spread, and is fully integrated into production technologies.   Advances in
international institutions permit the rapid diffusion of new technologies
