Hurry, Sale Ends 1st September Save up to 33%
Hello: 
Points as of 
16-AUG-2014 
My Account | Explore HHonors | download app | View Offers
Haven’t booked your break yet? There’s still time to make this summer the best yet. With hundreds of hotels across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, there’s a perfect summer escape waiting for you. But not for long…
Haven’t booked your break yet? There’s still time to make this summer the best yet. With hundreds of hotels across Europe, the Middle East and Africa, there’s a perfect summer escape waiting for you. But not for long…
Book between May 13, 2014 and September 30, 2014 for participating hotels in the Hilton Worldwide portfolio in Middle East & Africa and stay between May 18, 2014 and October 5, 2014.  For participating hotels in UK & Europe, book between 3 June 2014 and 1 September 2014 and stay on weekends between 27 June 2014 and 30 September 2014.  Subject to availability.  Full non-refundable prepayment required at time of booking. Your credit card will be charged immediately for the total amount quoted for the entire stay as reserved and refunds or credits will not be issued unless otherwise indicated by local law.  Charges cannot be applied to other stays, services or merchandise.  Booking cannot be changed.  Must book at least five (5) days in advance of arrival for hotels in Middle East & Africa and three (3) days in advance of arrival for hotels in UK & Europe. Discount is up to 33% off Best Available Rate and Bed & Breakfast Rate for select rooms at participating hotels. Blackout dates may apply and vary by property. Additional restrictions apply.  Rates featured are ‘from rates’ and are the lowest rates available for next 60 day arrival period.  For more details click here.
Hilton HHonors™ membership, earning of Points & Miles™ 
and redemption of Points are subject to HHonors Terms and Conditions.
View Our Privacy 
Statement      | 
Contact UsThis email was delivered to 
f.degiovanni@hackingteam.it.
Unsubscribe
