Hi Jeffrey,” Thank you for this.  At first read some really great info and learnings for us.   For now, a couple things that stand out.   I think the slide titled “Dispicable Me 2 Performance suggests  Bigger HT2 Opportunities” is too aggressive of a comp to highlight.  The next line after that title suggests that Hotel T2 should grow like DM2 because HT1 was bigger than DM1;  However, Rio 2 was bigger than DM1 and Rio 2 didn’t have anywhere near the growth vs. Rio 1 that DM2 had vs. DM1.  I just don’t think the numbers support the conclusion that a bigger box office of the original in theatrical necessarily correlates to growth rate for sequels for animated films.   I agree with you that   the ancillary business will probably  confirm that the Minions drove that film to new levels after the theatrical release.      I absolutely want to chase the success of DM2 but I think we should go easier on this correlation.    The other thing that stands out is the idea that Latin America projects to more growth than other regions.  While it is most definitely an opportunity region on this franchise, as we are releasing in a non-holiday time frame, the market size for family films can have a ceiling.  I am very bullish on the region but we have to keep in mind that Hotel T is already up there among the very biggest non-holiday family releases of all-time.   I’m optimistic, but we have to explore how we can eventize it to get a broader opening weekend audience as family will only take us so far. Again, some really great stuff here.  I think you have the hooks nailed (Fish out of Water, Mavis/Drac relationship, cute monsters, etc.).   This is a great exercise.  Once I spend a bit more time with it, would really like to walk through it with you.  Best, StevenFrom: Varanini, Jeffrey 
Steven, I wanted to let you that I did pass these notes on ….  Also, wanted to share with you the current draft.  This is out to Nigel as well as the territory teams for a final round of comments.  It’s also currently missing home video numbers for DESPICABLE ME and HOTEL T, which is important to the point of how much potential we think is in Latin America for our film.  Our territory teams have said that DESPICABLE 1 turned into a phenomenon on home video, but I want to see how well our film performed in that window too. Happy to walk you through this if that would be helpful.  All the best, Jeffrey VaraniniBusiness & Franchise DevelopmentSony Pictures Digital ProductionsTel: 310-840-8378 Email: user@domain.com  From: ODell, Steven 
Hi Jeffrey, As you continue to collect information from the territories on Hotel T2, I’m including some notes from a key manager who works here with me but is involved with all of our markets.  Really good story sensibility.   Just additional “food for thought” as you gather input. Best, Steven -The main female roles were a bit old-fashioned and stereotypical in a negative way.  Women seem to be, with very few exceptions, only serving  the story  as foils to the men (Mavis wants to remove Dennis from his loving Dracula, Dana obstructs Dracula and his crew from having fun.)  A clip that goes viral on the internet, it’s musical refrain is a dismissive, “your mother is already nutsynutsy cuckoo.” These females were portrayed as:  insecure (Mavis doesn’t want her son to be “Freaky like me”),  focused on romantic relationships with men (Winnie says “I am gonna marry you,” upon first meeting Dennis, Eunice advises Mavis that she should not neglect her husband ) and  in need of rescue (Winnie asks this of Dennis at the end) – in fact, the first page of the script is Dracula’s enactment of a female doll needing to be rescued by Dracula.   - In the first Hotel Transylvania (HT), the character arc of Dracula involved him learning to let go as a parent, and coming to terms with his lack of control over life/nature.  This seemed to be in contradiction with Dracula’s incessant interfering with Mavis’ parenting and his quest to keep her from moving away in HT2.  Another lesson he learned was to accept humans, when he directly benefitted from their kindness.  These lessons learned in HT seem to have been forgotten by the beginning  of HT2. -One of Mavis’ traits in HT is her willingness to embrace differences, she is the bridge  between humans and monsters.  In HT2, she wants to remove herself from monsters all together, and almost doesn’t enjoy their company anymore. -In HT2, the lesson of accepting and loving your child regardless how they turn out, is unconvincing when the child turns out  as you had hoped for (Dennis has fangs). -The use of the word diabolic when referring to a child, on page 95, may be offensive to Christians. 