There are two kinds of people in this world - the ones
who forward email jokes to all their friends and the
ones who don't.
I don't do that normally but this one was just too
appropriate to pass up.
Obviously it's just a big joke but it has a shade of
truth to it, as all good satire does. Read it, laugh
and pass it on to your friends (if you're one of those
people).
:)
Doyle
<<link>>
THE TEXT IS BELOW BUT YOU SHOULD LOOK AT THE ACTUAL
WEBSITE TO SEE THE PICTURE. THAT MAY BE THE FUNNIEST
PART!
Psychiatry Deemed a Religion in New Study
Written by Elvin F. Verdad
[PICTURE]
Caption: New Recommended Attire for Psychiatrists
Researchers at Jakartas renowned Hebrew University
recently published a study conclusively proving that
Psychiatry should be classified as a religion. The
study consisted of a study of Psychiatric textbooks
and journals (which will now be known as scriptures)
and interviews with Psychiatrists (better classified
as priests) and patients (hereafter known as the
flock).
This work brings a logical answer to many nagging
questions, like how Psychiatry could be considered the
authority in matters of the mind when their results
in the field have been poor, and are known to cause
more damage than benefit. It may also shed some light
on the tendency of Psychiatrists to molest children in
a much higher percentage than the general populace.
Psychiatry is portrayed alternately as a scientific
study or branch of medicine but either of these is
rapidly disproved, says Moshe Sapere of Hebrew
University. The science of Psychiatry is flawed.
Their studies are mainly funded by drug companies and
they publish illogical conclusions which  Surprise! 
make the drug companies look good. Psychiatry claims
similarity to medicine but this is in reality only
marketing; the only real similarities to actual
medicine are clothing and terminology. If you dressed
up a parrot in a doctors smock and taught it some
Latin phrases, it wouldnt be a doctor. Its the same
with Psychiatrists.
Some of the researchers were reluctant to agree with
the religion moniker for a group known to be
profit-based and harmful, but a study of religions of
the past shows that many have been used for profit and
have done harm to others. The matter of faith in a
deity was also a sticking point but a study of
Psychiatric scriptures reveals that Psychiatrists
believe in an invisible entity known as chemical
imbalance. The existence of Chemical Imbalance is
stated as fact in the texts though there is no proof
of his existence, analogous to a Christians belief in
God or a Muslims belief in Allah.
The key answer that led the researchers to declare
Psychiatry as a religion is that their High Priests
demand complete belief in unobservable phenomena and
continue to forward their beliefs despite no obvious
benefit. They are also known to vehemently attack
anyone who points out the lack of proof to their
claims. Most religions promise salvation in a future
existence. Psychiatry does not specifically make those
claims but clearly provides dubious benefit in this
existence. The researchers are pleased that they have
been able to finally clarify this subject and would
like to pass the following message to Psychiatrists
worldwide, may Chemical Imbalance bless you.
