NSM March in Jefferson City, Missouri and Rally in Tyler, Texas both on Nov.
8th. As our Nation faces Economic disaster, and a flood of illegal
immigrants a stand must be taken! Make that stand with us on Nov. 8th in
Missouri or Texas.
Lots of comments on this article in the comments section of this article:
<<link>>
*Posted: Thursday, Oct 23, 2008 - 09:53:24 am CDT
*
*Jefferson City preparing for NSM march*
*By Jeff Haldiman, user@domain.com*
Upholding the constitutional right of free speech while maintaining order -
that's the goal of law enforcement during a scheduled march by a neo-Nazi
organization.
At a meeting Wednesday night at the Jefferson City Police Department,
members of local law enforcement agencies talked with civic, elected and
religious leaders about the National Socialist Movement (NSM) rally and
march set for Nov. 8. They also discussed alternatives to the event that
could be offered for the public.
"We don't agree with what this group is saying, but we have to defend their
right to make a statement," said Jefferson City police Capt. Mike Smith.
"I'd like to see this turn out to be the most well staffed event - for no
reason."
Smith said police cars will be in front and in back of the group, which is
something the department generally does for parades. All available police
officers will be on duty that day, and they will be assisted by the Cole
County Sheriff's Department, Capitol Police, Missouri Highway Patrol and the
Missouri Water Patrol.
According to the parade request form filed by the NSM, the group will march
past the Governor's Mansion around 1:30 p.m. toward the Capitol, where their
rally will start at 2 p.m. on the south side of the building grounds. They
plan to finish at the Capitol by 4 p.m. and leave town by 4:30 p.m.
Despite this schedule, Smith said they are not anticipating more than 25
marchers and believe the group may end the event early.
Already, plans are being put forth on alternative activities to take place
at the same time the NSM event is going on.
