I am leaving for my court date in MN. in a couple minutes. Call me on my
cell in about 2 hours or anytime in the next day or 2. We have not failed
and the reason most of the other groups hate us only started after the kikes
started calling us the largest WP group in America. That is it pure and
simple jealousy, anyone who says different is a liar. The NSM was well liked
even with the uniforms when we were a smaller group. Yes, the uniform change
will bring us more support, and yes we still are and will continue to be the
largest WP group, but groveling to the weaker groups will not make them our
friends again, their excuses for inaction are due to cowardice in some
cases, but most often self centeredness. The NSM or any successfull Movement
in our struggle must grow on its own. If others help us, thats great and
tthey are welcome, but will we grovel or beg for their help? Fuck no!!! My
constant calls for Unity over the years have been looked on in the past as
weak, or begging for help. Piss on these so-called Racialists if they refuse
to take a stand over what they claim is a uniform, or watch now it will be
the black is too militant, or well you guys still wave a swastika, or some
other faggotty excuse. I have been doing this for a long time and have seen
all the weak ass excuses from these ass clowns. Their cowardice and lack of
any action beyond bbq's, showing up for a concert, or hanging out for beers
is what has killed the American Movement for years and years. The WP/NS in
Europe love the NSM, but laugh their asses off at most of the groups here
and the infighting. They loved that we marched on DC, but when the Europeans
march they attract 5 to 10 times our number cuz they have activists in their
ranks and will beat the asses of the fags that are only Social Skins, or BBQ
Socialites. That is where the problem is, not with us nor our allies that
will actually hit the streets, but the weak ass bitches that make up 100's
of excuse why their candy asses won't fucking march. Grrrrr, yeah I guess I
am a little grumpy today, need to hop in the shower and hit the road, long
drive today, so later this afternnoon would be a good time to call me if you
want to chat. 88
