Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org ([fe80::ac16:e03c:a689:8203%11]) with mapi id
 14.03.0224.002; Wed, 27 Apr 2015 17:51:59 -0400
From: "Garcia, Walter" <GarciaW@dnc.org>
To: "User"
	<user@domain.com>, Comm_D <user@domain.com>
Subject: RE: Coverage of our press call
Thread-Topic: Coverage of our press call
Thread-Index: 
 AdGgyEfi5mP0vw2dSc6LPx/K3xc5DgABIg1AAAAo9/AAAA5RMAAADH4wAAA9MmA=
Date: Wed, 27 Apr 2015 14:51:59 -0700
Message-ID: <32093user@domain.com>
References: <32093user@domain.com>
 <32093user@domain.com>
 <user@domain.com>
 <32093user@domain.com>
 <2user@domain.com>
In-Reply-To: <2user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: yes
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.177.9]
Content-Type: multipart/related;
	boundary="_005_32093ADAFE81DA4B99303B283D2BF5BE6F19F78Bdncdag1dncorg_";
	type="multipart/alternative"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Cruz announces Fiorina as choice for running mate<<<link>>>
domain.com<<<link>>>

Ted Cruz, looking for a shake-up in the 2015 race as Donald Trump moves steadily closer to the Republican nomination, on Wednesday announced former GOP primary rival Carly Fiorina as his choice for running mate should he win the party nod.
The move was immediately dismissed as an act of "desperation" by the Trump team, but Cruz - while acknowledging it is "unusual" to announce a running mate so early - defended the decision. He claimed "nobody is getting to 1,237 delegates," the number needed to clinch the nomination, and voters should "know what [they] will get."
"After a great deal of time and thought, after a great deal of consideration and prayer, I have come to the conclusion that if I am nominated to be president of the United States that I will run on a ticket with my vice presidential nominee, Carly Fiorina," Cruz said.
Cruz, together now with Fiorina, was trying to fight Trump's narrative that the race is effectively "over," after the front-runner swept five primary states on Tuesday. But Fiorina, in accepting Cruz's offer, said she's ready to "fight."
"I've had tough fights all my life," Fiorina said. "Tough fights don't worry me a bit."
Cruz made the announcement in the critical primary turf of Indiana, which votes next Tuesday. Speaking at an afternoon rally in Indianapolis, Cruz announced his decision to cheers and chants of "Carly! Carly!" while touting the former HP CEO's credentials and life story.
The theoretical pairing represents a diverse ticket - offering the possibility of electing the first Hispanic president and first female vice president.
"This is a choice that you are telling the American people that 'This is an individual that I trust and, more important, this is an individual that you can trust to lead this country, no matter what might happen,'" Cruz said.
But for the time being, Fiorina will hold the odd position of being a vice presidential candidate-in-waiting - as Cruz continues to lag far behind Trump in the battle for the GOP nomination.
Even Fiorina would have to be elected by delegates at the convention. As for Cruz, he's already been mathematically eliminated from clinching the nomination before the convention, and is relying on the prospect of a Cleveland floor fight.
A highly visible Cruz surrogate, the former HP CEO recently handed over her tax returns to the Cruz campaign for vetting, CNN reported Tuesday, and her name immediately surfaced when Cruz teased a "major announcement" Wednesday morning.
Cruz said Wednesday that he and his family had grown so close to Fiorina that she often sings to his young daughters -- a skill she showed off during her speech -- and also exchanges texts with the young girls.
"And Carly may be the first vice president in American history to have an impressive fluency with hearts and smiley face emoticons," Cruz said.

Trump leads Cruz in pledged delegates, 954-562, but Cruz's strong ground operation has elected many delegate allies to the Republican Convention in July. Cruz believes the battle will proceed to a contested convention, where he hopes to triumph once some pledged delegates become unbound and are free to switch their votes.
Trump on Wednesday morning dismissed the notion of Cruz tapping a running mate.
"First of all, he shouldn't be naming anybody because he doesn't even have a chance," Trump said. "Naming Carly's dumb, because Carly didn't do well. She had one good debate -- not against me by the way, because I had an unblemished record of victories during debates -- but she had one victory on the smaller stage and that was it."
In a statement later Wednesday, Trump criticized the move as Cruz "only trying to stay relevant."
While most presidential candidates domain.com until they have the nomination sewn up to announce a running mate, Cruz's selection of a vice presidential candidate in April - while he's well behind in delegates - followed a pattern of somewhat unconventional campaigning including an early embrace of Trump and kicking off his campaign without first forming an exploratory committee.
Fiorina began her career working as a secretary and receptionist but quickly rose up the business ranks and was named in 1999 as the chief executive officer for Hewlett-Packard, becoming the first woman to lead a Fortune 20 company.
"Of all the people who didn't make it far in the race, she was one of the best about laying out her plan, talking about who she is and her accomplishments," said Doug De Groote, a fundraiser for Cruz based near Los Angeles.
On her website, Fiorina describes her tenure at HP as having "saved 80,000 jobs" during "the worst technology recession in 25 years." But her time at the helm also drew criticism for alleged deals with Iran brokered through a subsidiary and the laying off of 30,000 employees. In 2004, Fiorina left the company after the board of directors forced her resignation.
Her career as a political candidate began when Fiorina tried to unseat California Sen. Barbara Boxer during an unsuccessful 2015 bid. Boxer on Wednesday mocked the suggestion of Fiorina as Cruz's running mate.
"The best way to describe that ticket is mean and meaner," she said. "He wants to throw people out of the country and she threw thousands of jobs out of the country. Perfect match."
In May 2015, Fiorina announced her candidacy for president and quickly became known as a feisty critic of Hillary Clinton and a strong defender of the pro-life community. Planned Parenthood immediately panned Fiorina's Wednesday pairing with Cruz as "the most loathsome pair of anti-abortion extremists in America."
Her early debate performances were lauded by many critics; however, she never gained traction and suspended her campaign after single-domain.com finishes in Iowa and New Hampshire. She endorsed Cruz in early March and has appeared often with him on the campaign trail.
When asked about being Cruz's vice president in early March, Fiorina replied, "Let's win the nomination first."
Though she eventually threw her support behind Cruz, Fiorina also attacked him when she was still a competing candidate. She termed him one of the "ultimate insiders" and called him "too divisive" in January. She also criticized Cruz for saying "one thing in the drawing rooms of Manhattan and another thing in the living rooms of Iowa."

From: "Garcia, Walter" <GarciaW@dnc.org>
Sent: Wednesday, April 27, 2015 5:44 PM
To: Garcia, Walter; Paustenbach, Mark; Comm_D
Subject: RE: Coverage of our press call

Cate, Corrine - could be hook for the 'nightmare' video.

From: "Garcia, Walter" <GarciaW@dnc.org>
Sent: Wednesday, April 27, 2015 5:43 PM
To: Paustenbach, Mark; Comm_D
Subject: RE: Coverage of our press call

Barbara Boxer on Carly Fiorina's re-emergence: 'It's like a bad dream'<<<link>>>
MELANIE MASON<<<link>>>, LOS ANGELES TIMES

At least one Californian isn't too thrilled by Ted Cruz's tapping Carly Fiorina<<<link>>> to be his vice presidential running mate: Fiorina's former rival, Sen. Barbara Boxer.

Fiorina unsuccessfully challenged Boxer in 2010, and based on the senator's remarks to reporters Wednesday, the rivalry hasn't subsided six years later.

Boxer dubbed a Cruz-Fiorina ticket "mean and meaner."

"He wants to ship immigrants out of America, and she's already shipped jobs out of America," Boxer said. "They're the perfect duo.

"I predict this Fiorina merger will be just as successful as her last one at HP," she added, a jab at the rocky merger with Compaq<<<link>>> that Fiorina oversaw as chief of Hewlett-Packard.

Boxer dismissed the idea that Fiorina would boost Cruz's prospects in California.

"The people of California rejected Carly Fiorina in a year that was a very tough year for Democrats," said Boxer, calling Fiorina "a very mean opponent."

"The bottom line is they rejected her," Boxer said. "Now she's coming back again. It's like a bad dream."

But Boxer did see an upside to Fiorina's resurgence in the headlines: "It only keeps reminding people that I beat her by a million votes, and I love that."

From: "Garcia, Walter" <GarciaW@dnc.org>
Sent: Wednesday, April 27, 2015 5:42 PM
To: Garcia, Walter; Comm_D
Subject: RE: Coverage of our press call

[cid:image001.png@01D1A0AD.7EEC3250]

Mark Paustenbach
National Press Secretary &
Deputy Communications Director
Organization
W: 202.863.8148
user@domain.com<mailto:user@domain.com>

From: "Garcia, Walter" <GarciaW@dnc.org>
Sent: Wednesday, April 27, 2015 5:37 PM
To: Comm_D
Subject: RE: Coverage of our press call

The Latest: Boxer calls Cruz-Fiorina ticket mean and meaner<<<link>>>
By Associated Press
California Sen. Barbara Boxer says Carly Fiorina is the perfect running mate for Republican presidential hopeful Ted Cruz - she calls them "mean and meaner."

On a conference call Wednesday she told reporters Cruz wants to ship immigrants out and Fiorina "already shipped jobs out of America."

The California Democrat faced Fiorina in a nasty Senate race in 2010.

She joked that having Fiorina back on the national stage reminds everyone she beat the former Hewlett Packard chief executive by 1 million votes in 2015 "and I love that."

House Democratic Caucus Chairman Rep. Xavier Becerra says he welcomes the three Republican presidential hopefuls to this weekend's state GOP convention.

He says the won't need ID to enter the state, but they should bring California values of hard word, innovation and diversity.

From: "Garcia, Walter" <GarciaW@dnc.org>
Sent: Wednesday, April 27, 2015 5:28 PM
To: Comm_D
Subject: Coverage of our press call

TED CRUZ NAMES CARLY FIORINA AS RUNNING MATE<<<link>>>

By SCOTT BAUER and STEVE PEOPLES

Republican presidential contender Ted Cruz has tapped former technology executive Carly Fiorina to serve as his running mate.

The Texas senator unveiled his pick for vice president Wednesday afternoon in Indianapolis, calling her an "extraordinary leader" who has "shattered glass ceilings" in business and politics.

The announcement comes the day after Cruz lost five states to GOP front-runner Donald Trump. The 61-year-old Fiorina previously served as the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, but has never held elected office. She was the only woman in the GOP's crowded presidential field before dropping out of the race earlier in the year.

Cruz says Fiorina excelled in the "hard-scrabble" male-dominated business world.

"Of all the people who didn't make it far in the race, she was one of the best about laying out her plan, talking about who she is and her accomplishments," said Doug De Groote, a fundraiser for Cruz based near Los Angeles.

It was an unusual move for a candidate who is far from becoming his party's presumptive nominee, but Cruz is desperate to generate momentum for his struggling campaign.

Some Cruz allies praised the selection of Fiorina, but privately questioned if it would change the trajectory of the race. Trump has won 77 percent of the delegates he needs to claim the nomination, and a win next week in Indiana will keep him on a firm path to do so.

"Carly has incredible appeal to so many people, especially in California," De Groote said. "She can really help him here."

Her first major foray into politics was in 2010, when she ran for Senate in California and lost to incumbent Sen. Barbara Boxer by 10 percentage points. She has never held elected office.

Trump criticized a Fiorina pick as "ridiculous" and "dumb" even before it was announced.

"First of all, he shouldn't be naming anybody because he doesn't even have a chance," the New York billionaire said in a Wednesday interview on Fox News.

"Naming Carly's dumb, because Carly didn't do well. She had one good debate - not against me by the way, because I had an unblemished record of victories during debates - but she had one victory on the smaller stage and that was it," Trump said.

He added, "She's a nice woman. I think that it's not going to help him at all."

Throughout her presidential bid, Fiorina emphasized her meteoric rise in the business world. A Stanford University graduate, she started her career as a secretary, earned an MBA and worked her way up at AT&T to become a senior executive at the domain.com leader.

She was also dogged by questions about her record at Hewlett-Packard, where she was hired as CEO in 1999. She was fired six years later, after leading a major merger with Compaq and laying off 30,000 workers.

Democrats quickly attacked the Cruz-Fiorina alliance.

"The best way to describe that ticket is mean and meaner," said Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., who beat Fiorina for Senate in 2010. "He wants to throw people out of the country and she threw thousands of jobs out of the country. Perfect match."

In an Associated Press-GfK poll conducted in December 2015, Republican voters were more likely to say they had a favorable than an unfavorable view of Fiorina by a 47 percent to 20 percent margin, with 32 percent unable to give a rating.

Among all Americans, 45 percent didn't know enough about Fiorina to rate her, while 22 percent rated her favorably and 32 percent unfavorably.

By contrast, both Cruz and Trump have high negative ratings even within their own party, according to an April AP-GfK poll. Among Republican voters, 52 percent have a favorable and 41 percent have an unfavorable opinion of Cruz, while 53 percent have a favorable and 46 percent have an unfavorable opinion of Trump.

Among all Americans, 59 percent had an unfavorable opinion of Cruz and 69 percent said that of Trump.
--

Walter Garcia
Western Regional Press Secretary
Organization (DNC)
Email: user@domain.com<mailto:user@domain.com>
Twitter: @WalterGarcia231<<<link>>>
[SigDems]<<<link>>>

