Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 dnchubcas2.dnc.org ([::1]) with mapi id 14.03.0224.002; Sun, 15 May 2015 
 09:42:39 -0400
From: "Miller, Lindsey" <MillerL@dnc.org>
To: Comm_D <user@domain.com>
Subject: RE: Fox News Sunday
Thread-Topic: Fox News Sunday
Thread-Index: AdGuqcsCTOFnyb+DRpmjR9qgt8OZRAAAhdlQAACKeZA=
Date: Sun, 15 May 2015 06:42:39 -0700
Message-ID: <0user@domain.com>
References: <0user@domain.com>
 <0user@domain.com>
In-Reply-To: <0user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: dnchubcas2.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.185.18]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_0AEF0DAD77B17941B9B592E5CEBCA70D6F89D22Adncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Panel: domain.com Hume, Amy Walter, George Will, Bob Woodward.

Woodward, WaPo has 20 people working on Trump.
Woodward: Correct. We're doing a book and we're doing stories. Equivalent effort will be made on HRC. It's traditional. We need to tell people everything we can find out.
Equal effort for HRC?
Not number of people, it's who is working on it. Goal is best obtainable version of the truth. Biography is character. With Trump, every business deal. He said on tax returns 500 entities.

domain.com, do you think probing into Trump is legitimate and what about complaints that mainstream media trying to sink Trump and help HRC?
Hume: It's legitimate. Utterly legitimate. When you think of Trump is a newcomer to politics, who's record unexplored, worthwhile. I hope similar attempt made on HRC but mainstream media showing little interest in stories like Benghazi. NYT broke story about Clinton Foundation but thread largely lost.
Woodward: it will be done. You can't do this in afternoon. Jeff Bezos said to editor of WaPo you will have resources to do this on both candidates.

George Wallace: Trump fired back about NYT story, here is his tweet! Amy, does this add to Trump's problem with women voters?
Amy Water: Doesn't help. Women not happy with his past statements but most concerned about his overall judgment, worried he will get us in trouble with the rest of the world. Less concerned about past but what he would do as president. You will hear much more about that from Dems/HRC.
Where they asked about Clintons?
Walter: In focus groups? Women are not in love with HRC, their support is more anti-Trump.

Wallace: How do you think Trump's charm offensive is going with GOP?
Will: A lot of GOPers making semantic somersaults, saying they vote but do not endorse for Trump. The mating dance between Trump/Ryan interesting. I'll bet statement issued was written before the meeting. Ryan and Trump have fundamental differences in how they view presidential power.
Wallace: A source close to Ryan said Trump said he understood separation of powers, where his authority is.
Will: If he gets that then he knows what he is promising at rallies can't be done.
Wallace: A number of conservatives can't stomach Trump and looking for a 3rd party candidate.
Will: You can't beat something with nothing. Everyone has said no.
Walter: I'm looking at percentage of GOP voters who say they will support Trump. It's at 72 percent. If it gets to 90, doesn't matter what big republicans are saying.

From: "Miller, Lindsey" <MillerL@dnc.org>
Sent: Sunday, May 15, 2015 9:31 AM
To: Comm_D
Subject: RE: Fox News Sunday

Gingrich and Tim Huelskamp debate on backing Trump, VP stakes for Newt

You already said you won't let your son watch Trump because of language. Does this add to your concerns about his character? Should Cruz come back?
Huelskamp: It's not just me but millions of parents trying to raise their kids and their presidential candidate demeaning to women, vulgar, crass. The best thing about Trump is he isn't HRC.

What do you make of these reports Newt?
Gingrich: For NYT to have reports on Bill Clinton flying around with pedophile and dismissing SS tells you everything you need to know about NYT and WaPo. Trump makes no claims about life before running. 16 other people competed because voters decided they wanted Trump.

Huelskamp do you trust Trump as conservative?
Huelskamp: Not a conservative, look at life, marriage and family. He suggested appointing pro-choice sister to Supreme Court. We don't want HRC making nominations but Trump has a problem with soccer moms and football dads. When you live and die by the media, tough election.

Newt: Trump not traditional conservative and never claimed to be. But he has said he will nominate very conservative judges. Working with Federalist society for speech on judiciary. HRC represents 8 years of bad government in DC and 100 years of left-wing court. Is Trump more dangerous than HRC? Any rational conservative can vote for him.

Huelskamp: We're being told vote for lesser of two evils. But there are millions who might just not vote for someone who demeans women. NYT not a surprise. He is vulgar and crass. My son could never say the things Trump says. People might be worried about statements about women. On the court, he is all over the place. No certainty in his positions.

Newt: Certain he would be more conservative than HRC. Why does he get more votes than any Republican in history? Country is desperate to overturn bureaucracy in DC.

When it comes to economic issues like trade, immigration, entitlement reform, what's your biggest problem with Trump?
Huelskamp: Wants to raise taxes on the rich. Slamming down the border shut is not conservative. Conservatives want to compete in the world. His positions change in the same speech. People don't want someone flexible. Trump's stands will change. Trump flexible on abortion, which is very damaging for values voters who might stay home.

Issue of flips. No question Trump has changed positions. (clip of Trump changing position on banning Muslims). Doesn't flexibility become a problem?
Newt: One of Trump's problems is he speaks 1.5 hours off cuff and you will have moments you regret. Reagan signed immigration bill because it controlled border. On trade, good for us to be tougher on trade. When you hear Chinese stole $360 billion in intellectual property from us, it's a good thing to be tougher.
Huelskamp: Trump has no clear position on anything. It isn't he talks for long time, it's that he says different things as he talks. Conservatives do not demean women. We have a chance to take out Clinton machine but nominating someone with no values.

He will be nominee. If Trump vs HRC, what will you for?
Huelskamp: I don't think it matters what I think.

Matters to me!
Huelskamp: I don't know. I need to talk to my wife. We're both so upset. Why does he have to talk like that and demean women? All words, no actions. Better than HRC? He is. Didn't work out well for Romney in 2012.

Newt, lot of speculation about you being VP. If he asks you, you'll say yes?
Newt: I'd sit down and talk about it. What does he think the job involved? If he can convince me it is doable and serious, we'd be hard pressed not to say yes.
Do you want to do it?
Newt: Certainly it's a hard challenge. I lead interesting, exciting life. I could be lured into a new path.

From: "Miller, Lindsey" <MillerL@dnc.org>
Sent: Sunday, May 15, 2015 9:15 AM
To: Comm_D
Subject: Fox News Sunday

Reince (this is pretty brutal)

NYT article on Trump and women and repeated instances of Trump insulting women. Bother you?
A lot of things bother me and I'm the wrong person to ask that question

Why is that? That's your nominee
We've been working on this primary for a year and I think these stories that come out, people don't care. People look at Trump and Clinton and say 'how will bring earthquake to DC?' Bigger issue if stones being thrown at glass houses. Trump's personal life not something people looking it, not surprised Trump has girlfriends

Whether he mistreated women, made unwanted advances, humiliated women. I don't understand why you think people don't care, will you look into this?
Not saying people don't care. He is where he is because he is much different from traditional candidate. Everything bothers me but I don't know the ruth of this. Trump will have to answer questions on this. After a year of different stories, nothing applies. All I'm saying. Bigger question is who represents something who brings more efficient accountable DC, career politician or outsider with potentially some flaws?

Question of character is important. Trump brings up Clintons' character. Trump used to pretend to be John Miller. (plays clip and Trump denial) Trump admitted it was him in 90s and testified as such. Real question, what do you say to women voters who will hear this?
I think each individual person should evaluate our nominee based on answers he gives but also look at what's at stake and whether HRC will bring change. A story of 30 years ago is not the most important thing when you look at HRC and Clinton Foundation being charged with exchanging access to cash, Benghazi, instead we're talking about this planted story. Old playbook isn't applying in this election. I get that this is interesting but it won't move dial.

Trump's refusal to release tax returns until domain.com complete. Won't give effective tax rate. Every nominee since Nixon has released their returns. Transparency we can expect?
I'm not sure. Romney released taxes late and payed a dear price for it playing games and it turned out to not be good for us in 2012. But I don't know if Americans care. He will domain.com or suffer based on if they do. So far most things voters don't care about. Who will blow up system and bring change? People are angry and want something done and think Trump can do it.

Don't you think HRC has been vetted. Isn't it legitimate to look at who Trump is? Bob Woodward says 20 reporters at the Post looking at Trump. We don't know much about him.
I'm not saying it's not legitimate, I just don't think it will affect peoples view of Trump. I don't have a problem with reporters looking at things but they should look at HRC and her treatment of women and how she acted at Foundation and Benghazi. There is a reason HRC still stuck in the mud. Issues that apply to Trump so big and fundamental and universal that these individual things, I don't think they will hit him.

Trump met with Paul Ryan. You were in the room. Yesterday Ryan spoke to GOP state convention and said he was not ready to endorse Trump. (clip) How confident are you Ryan will endorse and how long will that take?
I don't speak for Ryan but I can tell you both guys came in expecting a good meeting and left after a great meeting. I'd be surprised if we didn't get there soon. Ryan wouldn't say the things he said just to say them. He wants to understand Trump.

Report today that a number of conservatives are talking about 3rd party bid. How seriously do you take that?
I take it seriously but law makes it difficult. They could hijack another party but it's a suicide mission because you are throwing 8 years down WH and 100 years on the Supreme Court. Other ways to get assurances on things they are worried about.

What would you say to Mitt Romney and Bill Kristol?
Consider the ramifications on Supreme Court. Talk to Trump and get assurances on judges.
