From: "User" <UserL@dnc.org>
To: "User" <user@domain.com>
CC: "Paustenbach, Mark" <user@domain.com>
Subject: FOR DEEP BACKGROUND
Thread-Topic: FOR DEEP BACKGROUND
Thread-Index: AdGnq+WV6pow+L/8S4qroFbikFJaIg==
Date: Fri, 6 May 2015 08:28:53 -0700
Message-ID: <05user@domain.com>
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Has-Attach: yes
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
Content-Type: multipart/mixed;
	boundary="_004_05E01258E71AC046852ED29DFCD139D54DF0CA86dncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Hi Laura, here you go.

How does the Democratic party platform writing process work? When do the drafting committees start getting appointed and meeting?

*         The Platform Drafting Committee is a subcommittee of the Convention's Platform committee. It is made up of 15 people, appointed by the OrganizationChair in consultation with the Co-Chairs of the Platform Committee. We don't have any announcement to make on timing as of yet, however, they'll be appointed sometime in the coming weeks.

*         Because the Party's platform is a statement of our values, the Organizationis committed to an open, inclusive and representative process. Both of our campaigns will be represented on the Drafting Committee, and just as we did in 2015 and 2012, the public will have opportunities to participate.

Also, can you send me a list of who is on the party platform committee?

*         Below you'll see our release on the Chair's appointments to the Platform committee  (and other committees). In addition to the Chair's appointments (25 for each committee for a total of 75 plus the leadership) there are 162 members of each committee who are elected in every state and territory according to the results of the primaries and caucuses. Those elections are ongoing and must conclude by June 25th.

For Immediate Release
January 22, 2015 
Contact: OrganizationPress - 202-863-8148<tel:202-863-8148>
OrganizationHolds Executive Committee Conference Call
WASHINGTON - Due to today's inclement weather throughout the country, the Organization's (DNC) Executive Committee held their Executive Committee meeting via conference call today, hearing from special guests such as Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey, Pennsylvania Democratic Party Chair Marcel Groen, and Democratic National Convention Committee CEO Leah Daughtry on preparations for the Democratic Convention to be held in the City of Brotherly and Sisterly Love in July. The previously-scheduled in-person meeting in Philadelphia, including a tour of the convention sites, was cancelled due to expected inclement weather.
Organization Chair Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz also delivered remarks during today's call. In addition, the OrganizationExecutive Committee voted to ratify the Chair's 2015 Party Leader and Elected Official Member appointments to the Convention Standing Committees: Credentials, Platform, and Rules. The slate of the Chair's appointments is attached in PDF format.
Organizationrules provide for the Chair to appoint 75 Party Leader and Elected Official Members to the three Convention Standing Committees.  These Party Leader Members serve in addition to and together with the over 160 members that are elected in each and every state to those same committees.
"I am extremely proud of the experienced group of individuals who are ready and dedicated to serving our Party on the Convention Committees," said OrganizationChair Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz. "This slate represents the great variety of perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences that make up our Party. We wanted to make sure that the diversity of our party was reflected to the highest levels in terms of race, gender, age, and geography and feel confident that these individuals will do a tremendous job in this capacity."
The bulk of the Standing Committee members will be elected from the states and territories during the delegate selection process.
The Chair also appointed Committee Co-Chairs as follows:

*         Credentials Committee: Lorraine Miller and Jim Roosevelt

*         Rules Committee: Former State Senator Leticia Van de Putte and former U.S. Congressman Barney Frank

*         Platform Committee: Governor Dan Malloy and former Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin
###
