Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 dnchubcas2.dnc.org ([::1]) with mapi id 14.03.0224.002; Fri, 20 May 2015 
 15:06:40 -0400
From: "Walker, Eric" <WalkerE@dnc.org>
To: "User" <user@domain.com>,
	CommsApproval_D <user@domain.com>, "Helmstetter, TJ"
	<user@domain.com>
CC: RR2 <user@domain.com>
Subject: RE: For research approval: Excerpts from press call with Reps.
 Elizabeth Esty, Pete Aguilar, and Gun Violence Experts discussing Donald
 Trump and the NRA 
Thread-Topic: For research approval: Excerpts from press call with Reps.
 Elizabeth Esty, Pete Aguilar, and Gun Violence Experts discussing Donald
 Trump and the NRA 
Thread-Index: AdGyyQmmkshfbxFSQAusaLvUWZN+uAAAOWHAAAAxYsA=
Date: Fri, 20 May 2015 12:06:39 -0700
Message-ID: <2user@domain.com>
References: <2user@domain.com>
 <user@domain.com>
In-Reply-To: <user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: dnchubcas2.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.177.44]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_2AE4202A723DAE418719D2AC271C35F36EFF5A3Bdncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Okay - rachel or jenna send out ASAP please.

From: "Walker, Eric" <WalkerE@dnc.org>
Sent: Friday, May 20, 2015 3:06 PM
To: Walker, Eric; Palermo, Rachel; CommsApproval_D; Helmstetter, TJ
Cc: RR2
Subject: RE: For research approval: Excerpts from press call with Reps. Elizabeth Esty, Pete Aguilar, and Gun Violence Experts discussing Donald Trump and the NRA

good

From: "Walker, Eric" <WalkerE@dnc.org>
Sent: Friday, May 20, 2015 2:55 PM
To: Palermo, Rachel; CommsApproval_D; Helmstetter, TJ
Cc: RR2
Subject: RE: For research approval: Excerpts from press call with Reps. Elizabeth Esty, Pete Aguilar, and Gun Violence Experts discussing Donald Trump and the NRA

I'm good. Adding research. We should get this out before Trump stops speaking.

From: "Walker, Eric" <WalkerE@dnc.org>
Sent: Friday, May 20, 2015 2:53 PM
To: CommsApproval_D; Helmstetter, TJ
Subject: For comms approval: Excerpts from press call with Reps. Elizabeth Esty, Pete Aguilar, and Gun Violence Experts discussing Donald Trump and the NRA

For Immediate Release
May 20, 2015 
Contact: OrganizationPress - 202-863-8148<tel:202-863-8148>
Excerpts from OrganizationPress Call with Reps. Elizabeth Esty, Pete Aguilar, Brady Campaign President Dan Gross, and Gun Violence Prevention Advocates discussing Donald Trump at the NRA Leadership Forum

This morning, Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty, Congressman Pete Aguilar, Brady Campaign President Dan Gross, and gun violence prevention advocates held a conference call to discuss Donald Trump's appearance at the National Rifle Association Leadership Forum.

Below find excerpts as prepared for delivery.
Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5)
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut is in my district. I am sickened and horrified that in the three-and-a-half years since those shootings, nothing has been done to combat gun violence. I lay the blame on the NRA and the Members of Congress who are beholden to them.
Despite the fact that 90 percent of Americans supported action on gun reform after the Newtown tragedy, the NRA and their allies worked to defeat the bill by spreading rumors and falsehoods. Meanwhile, news of shootings across the country still dominate the headlines.
Both of our Democratic presidential candidates have proposed solutions to address this crisis, and President Obama's executive actions earlier this year addresses this crisis by expanding background checks,  effectively enforcing the laws already on the books, increasing mental health treatment, and funding research for gun safety technology.
Congressman Pete Aguilar (CA-31)
...
We have held so many moments of silence for those lost to gun violence. We have prayed for their families, and we have vowed to take steps so that this would never happen again. Our words are empty if our actions don't back them up.

No single reform could have stopped the tragedy that unfolded in San Bernardino, but that's not an excuse to ignore the need for a national discussion around gun safety.
 ...

I don't know how officials at the NRA or the Republican Party sleep at night, knowing that we can and should do more to protect our communities. There's an emptiness to our unanswered prayers for change when we don't take steps to work for the type of change that we want. I don't want to hold another moment of silence - I want Congress to work towards a sensible solution and I want the Republican Party to realize that they answer to the American public, not the NRA.

Dan Gross, President of the Brady Campaign

...As the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, Donald Trump has made gun violence in America a campaign trail punchline. In January, the front runner speculated that he could "stand in the middle of 5th Avenue and shoot somebody" without hurting his popularity.
...

Make no mistake: this presidential election represents a critical crossroads for this issue and for our collective safety. Lives are literally at stake. The choice between Democrats and Donald Trump will be a referendum on gun violence in America - and the result will make a big difference either helping to fight or fuel the problem.
...

As he prepares to address the National Rifle Association as today's keynote speaker, I challenge Donald Trump to stand by the 74% of NRA members who want expanded Brady background checks and I call on him to support Senator Schumer's recently introduced Brady Bill 2.0 that expands background checks to all gun sales.

Po Murray, Chair of the Newtown Action Alliance

I have lived in Sandy Hook for 17 years. I am a mother of 4 children, all graduates of Sandy Hook Elementary School. The shooter lived in my neighborhood. I lost my neighbors and our children's teachers. The entire community was and continues to be heartbroken. We made a promise to take action to end gun violence.
...
Donald Trump appeals to the worst elements in our country. If he were elected president, we should be afraid of the toxic combustion that could result from his hateful rhetoric plus his reckless views on guns.
...

It's crystal clear that Donald Trump stands with the NRA and the gun industry---not the families of Sandy Hook, San Bernardino, Columbine or others impacted by gun violence. America will not be great without meaningful common sense gun measures. More and more American families are touched by gun violence every single day. We need the voters to elect a President who will prioritize and lead on the issue of gun violence prevention to make America safe again.

Tom Mauser, father of Columbine victim Daniel Mauser and spokesman for Colorado Ceasefire

What's most disturbing to me about Donald Trump is his view on background checks. At Columbine, where my son was killed, background checks were an important issue.
...
What are we going to do about the 33,000 plus gun deaths and 70,000 plus gun injuries that we suffer every year?
...
I'm looking forward to an election where we really put the question to him: why do you not support the 90 percent of Americans, Mr. Trump, that support stronger background checks?

