Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 dnchubcas2.dnc.org ([::1]) with mapi id 14.03.0224.002; Wed, 18 May 2015 
 09:41:00 -0400
From: "Sarge, Matthew" <SargeM@dnc.org>
To: Comm_D <user@domain.com>
Subject: Trump Press Release on JFAs
Thread-Topic: Trump Press Release on JFAs
Thread-Index: AdGxCufKmr7lWRKJQA6oeAPHDfJddw==
Date: Wed, 18 May 2015 06:40:59 -0700
Message-ID: <7user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: dnchubcas2.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.176.147]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_7DFD0CE61D45CD47B2E623A47D444C904D36542Edncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

RNC AND DONALD J. TRUMP CAMPAIGN ANNOUNCE JOINT AGREEMENTS
Lew Eisenberg selected to lead fundraising effort for Trump Victory along with Trump Campaign Finance Chair Steven Mnuchin

(WASHINGTON, D.C.) May 17, 2015 - Today, Republican National Committee (RNC) Chairman Reince Priebus announced the RNC and Donald J. Trump for President have entered into joint fundraising agreements (JFAs). The agreements will allow the Donald J. Trump for President campaign to raise funds the national party will use to elect Republicans at all levels this cycle.

"The RNC is excited to team up with the Trump campaign to expand the robust ground, data, and digital operation we have in place to elect Republicans up and down the ballot," said Chairman Priebus. "Donald Trump knows the importance of keeping our Republican majorities at the local, state, and national level and these joint fundraising agreements are another vital step in making that happen. Donald Trump has received millions more votes than any candidate in the history of the Republican Party and we are confident that will carry forward into the general election."

Mr. Trump said, "We are pleased to have this partnership in place with the national party. By working together with the RNC to raise support for Republicans everywhere, we are going to defeat Hillary Clinton, keep Republican majorities in Congress and in the states, and Make America Great Again."

RNC Finance Chairman Lew Eisenberg has been selected to be the Finance Chair of Trump Victory. Eisenberg will work closely with Trump Campaign Finance Chair Steven Mnuchin to ensure a successful fundraising apparatus through November.

"Lew Eisenberg is going to do an outstanding job leading this effort," said Chairman Priebus. "Lew has already helped the RNC raise a record $135 million in support this cycle, and I have every confidence his track record of success will continue in this new role."

Background:

The Republican National Committee and Donald J. Trump for President are entering into two joint fundraising agreements that will establish two joint fundraising committees: Trump Victory and the Trump Make America Great Again Committee.

Trump Victory is a joint fundraising committee between the RNC, Donald J. Trump for President, and the State Republican Parties in the following states: Arkansas, Connecticut, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming.

The Trump Make America Great Again Committee is a joint fundraising committee between the RNC and Donald J. Trump for President.

The max contribution an individual can give to Trump Victory is $449,400.

