Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org ([fe80::ac16:e03c:a689:8203%11]) with mapi id
 14.03.0224.002; Sun, 1 May 2015 12:19:31 -0400
From: "Freundlich, Christina" <FreundlichC@dnc.org>
To: "User" <user@domain.com>, Comm_D <user@domain.com>
Subject: RE: Video Request: This Week
Thread-Topic: Video Request: This Week
Thread-Index: AdGjsfQ2Gd2sqCZwQUmHdJWOX/fXBwAAhqLgAAKzd3AAAJjkkAAAxJeg
Date: Sun, 1 May 2015 09:19:31 -0700
Message-ID: <user@domain.com>
References: <user@domain.com>
 <3user@domain.com>
 <user@domain.com>
 <user@domain.com>
In-Reply-To: <user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.185.18]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_AAEA4E36C4D7A2449432CA66AA173899545E7399dncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Sarah Huckabee Sanders v Stephanie Schriock

More women than men vote in presidential elections, so why is he doing this?
Huckabee - I don't think he is attacking women, I think he is pointing out what the sanders campaign has been pointing out for months is that the only reason Hillary Clinton is running is because she is a woman. She doesn't have a successful record to run on.

Is Trump trying to make her just a woman? Shouting? Etc?
He is not saying those things because she is woman. When you put them together on the issues, he is better

Stephanie?
He is taking on a strategy that is marginalizing women. Emily's list has been doing polling for decades now and women voters are going to vote for the candidate that advances the economic agenda for women.

Pro Cruz super Pac ad about boxer Mike Tyson. Is this the type of endorsement that Donald Trump should be looking for?
Donald Trump is looking for the endorsement of every American, which is why he is doing so well. He is not a Washington insider, shes the ultimate insider.

Kellyanne Conway said that Trump is swiftboating women
Trump's comments are actually going to backfire. 69% of women have an unfavorable opinion of Donald Trump

Does Hillary alienate men if she continues to play it up
She talks about a contrast between two visions. Her campaign focuses on economic opportunities between women and families.

From: "Freundlich, Christina" <FreundlichC@dnc.org>
Sent: Sunday, May 01, 2015 12:04 PM
To: Bhatnagar, Akshai; Comm_D
Subject: RE: Video Request: This Week

Robert Gates interview - this was a good interview for us, but he doesn't outright say that Donald Trump is dangerous. We should consider chopping this up and blasting it out and write the framework of a dangerous Donald at the top

Tell me what you believe a Trump presidency would mean for national security?
Based on the speech, you have someone who doesn't understand the difference between a business negotiation and a negotiation with sovereign powers
For example, on the one hand says, we need to be a more reliable ally to our friends. And in the next breath, he says we're going to rip up all those burden-sharing agreements and make them go their own way if they don't pay for everything. He says some things that, are hard to disagree with. The allies ought to be doing more. But how do you actually get them there when you're dealing with 28 sovereign countries?
How do you walk away from china? A country we have trillions of dollars in trade with?

If Donald Trump is elected, are we safe? Is national security in good hands?
He doesn't appear to listen, that he is the smartest man in the room. I have worked for some very different presidents. One thing that they all had in common was their willingness to listen. And then make their own independent judgements. But they never assumed they all had the answers, and that is one of the things that troubles me.

How do you think foreign leaders see him? What are they saying?
They have spoken for themselves. Many have said publically how worried they are about the possibility of Mr. Trump becoming president. His unpredictability, his lack of understanding about the complexity of foreign affairs. His threats that he is going to make other country do things.

Let's talk about Secretary Clinton. Is she more hawkish
She probably would be. She has a more robust action than Syria

How would her foreign policy be different than Barack Obama's? Is she more hawkish? Do you see her that way?
I think she probably would be. She clearly has been on the record favoring a more robust action in Syria, for example. So I think show probably would be some what more hawkish than president Obama.

President Obama said his biggest mistake was not working for after intervention in Libya. How much responsibility does secretary Clinton bear for that?
I think just as was the case in the inability to deal with post invasion Iraq in the bush administration, ultimately, the failure to plan for a post invasion or post military operation really has to reside in the white house. It's the white house. And the nsc that has to bring defense and state intelligence community and others together in the plans process. It's not the province of just one department.

I want to ask you about her e-mails. You have been in government almost your whole life. I know there is lots of overclassification. People complain about that. With your experience, if you read a document in an e-mail, would you have a pretty good idea of whether it should be marked top secret even if it wasn't?
Sometimes not. Things are overclassified. Sometimes I would get something that would be classified. And I would look at somebody and say, I'm about to tell a foreign leader what is on this piece of paper. That's marked top secret. And that's going to do serious damage to the United States? Why are you gfing it to me as a talking point if it's classified top secret? It is tough sometimes. If you don't have any markings on a piece of paper, it's tough sometimes to tell if it's classified or not.

From: "Freundlich, Christina" <FreundlichC@dnc.org>
Sent: Sunday, May 01, 2015 11:51 AM
To: Bhatnagar, Akshai; Comm_D
Subject: RE: Video Request: This Week

Roundtable

Matthew Dowd - no. He should take the advice that he gave Kasich. When you are mathematically not vile, you should drop out.
Ted Cruz understands that this is slipping away
EJ Dionne - you have a lot of people who are afraid to come out against Donald Trump now
Kirsten Soltis Anderson - Indiana isn't going to be easy for Ted Cruz
LZ Granderson - doesn't think Cruz will win at a convention
Matthew Dowd  - without Ted Cruz being a good option, this thing is for Donald Trump
LZ Granderson-Bernie sanders shouldn't bow out

From: "Freundlich, Christina" <FreundlichC@dnc.org>
Sent: Sunday, May 01, 2015 10:17 AM
To: Freundlich, Christina; Comm_D
Subject: RE: Video Request: This Week

Watch here<<<link>>>

From: "Freundlich, Christina" <FreundlichC@dnc.org>
Sent: Sunday, May 01, 2015 10:02 AM
To: Comm_D
Subject: Video Request: This Week

Can we pull the rest of the show please? Will take a look to see if there is anything notable

Christina Freundlich
OrganizationDeputy National Press Secretary
314-302-0602

