Received: from domain.com (192.168.185.10) by domain.com
 (192.168.185.16) with Microsoft SMTP Server (TLS) id 14.3.224.2; Mon, 23 May
 2015 07:43:16 -0400
Received: from domain.com (8.19.118.102) by domain.com
 (192.168.10.221) with Microsoft SMTP Server id 14.3.224.2; Mon, 23 May 2015 
 07:43:05 -0400
Received: from [10.87.0.111] (HELO domain.com)  by
 domain.com (CommuniGate Pro SMTP 6.0.4)  with ESMTP id 929127119
 for user@domain.com; Mon, 23 May 2015 06:43:14 -0500
X-Note-AR-ScanTimeLocal: 5/23/2016 6:43:25 AM
X-Policy: domain.com
X-Primary: user@domain.com
X-Note: This Email was scanned by AppRiver SecureTide
X-Note: SecureTide Build: 4/25/2016 6:59:12 PM UTC
X-ALLOW: ALLOWED SENDER FOUND
X-ALLOW: ADMIN: @politico.com ALLOWED
X-Virus-Scan: V-
X-Note: Spam Tests Failed: 
X-Country-Path: ->United States->
X-Note-Sending-IP: 68.232.198.10
X-Note-Reverse-DNS: domain.com
X-Note-Return-Path: user@domain.com
X-Note: User Rule Hits: 
X-Note: Global Rule Hits: G276 G277 G278 G279 G283 G284 G295 G407 
X-Note: Encrypt Rule Hits: 
X-Note: Mail Class: ALLOWEDSENDER
X-Note: Headers Injected
Received: from domain.com ([68.232.198.10] verified)  by
 domain.com (CommuniGate Pro SMTP 6.1.7)  with ESMTP id 140378196
 for user@domain.com; Mon, 23 May 2015 06:43:25 -0500
Received: by domain.com id h8bmd4163hs4 for <user@domain.com>; Mon,
 23 May 2015 05:42:47 -0600 (envelope-from
 <user@domain.com>)
From: Natasha Korecki <illinoisplaybook@politico.com>
To: <user@domain.com>
Subject: =?UTF-8?B?UE9MSVRJQ08gSWxsaW5vaXMgUGxheWJvb2ssIHByZXNlbnRlZCBi?=
 =?UTF-8?B?eSBOdWNsZWFyIE1hdHRlcnM6IFJJQ0tFVFRTIGhlYWRlZCB0byBDTEVWRUxB?=
 =?UTF-8?B?TkQg4oCTIEtBUkVOIExFV0lTJyBnb29kIHZpYmVzIG9uIE1BTkFSIGJpbGwg?=
 =?UTF-8?B?4oCTIFdoZXJlJ3MgUkFITSdzIHByZXNzdXJlIG9uIE1BRElHQU4/?=
Date: Mon, 23 May 2015 05:42:47 -0600
List-Unsubscribe: <mailto:user@domain.com>
Reply-To: POLITICO subscriptions
	<user@domain.com>
x-job: 1376319_5449665
Message-ID: <96351user@domain.com>
Content-Type: multipart/alternative; boundary="mijAgrURIaBU=_?:"
X-WatchGuard-AntiVirus: part scanned. clean action=allow
Return-Path: user@domain.com
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AVStamp-Mailbox: MSFTFF;1;0;0 0 0
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: domain.com
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Anonymous
MIME-Version: 1.0

05/23/2016 07:40 AM EDT

By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki)  

Good Monday morning, Illinois. The weekend brought us a massive Chicago rally that saw thousands demonstrating against city violence. Elsewhere in the state, it also brought some clarity on the future of the state's Republican party. At the party convention in Peoria, there was much talk about the importance of unity in order to remain competitive up and down the ticket. Then 12 at-large delegates were selected, including someone who is fiercely anti-Trump. The GOP also adopted its party platform, which did not include embracing same-sex marriage. 

In Springfield, the clock is ticking toward the May 31 end of session budget deadline, and Gov. Rauner's remarks over the weekend remained hopeful that a compromise could be reached. Sources say, however, with time running out, a so-called "grand compromise" is looking less and less likely. 

Todd Ricketts, part of the family that owns the Chicago Cubs and involved in Our Principles PAC, which has dropped attack ads against Donald Trump, is headed to Cleveland as an at-large delegate. 

Here's what Ricketts said in an April radio interview about Trump: "He can't win a general election, and all this talk of him saying that the Republican Party's trying to steal the nomination from him; you can't have something stolen that doesn't belong to you. The nomination belongs to the Party, not to Donald, and the Party in the end will decide who becomes the nominee." Ricketts is bound to vote for Trump on the first ballot at the convention. 

Here's one such anti-Trump ad from Our Principles: <<link>> 

CONVENTION OVERVIEW: "Republicans try unite at convention ahead of important November election," by Daily Herald's Mike Riopell: "One of the at-large delegates picked was Todd Ricketts, of the family that owns the Chicago Cubs, who once called Trump a 'horrific candidate' and helped lead an effort against him in the primary. Another is former Cook County GOP chairman Aaron Del Mar of Palatine, who ran in the March primary as a backer of Ohio Gov. John Kasich. 

Getting Trump supporters and the so-called Republican establishment to get along and get to the polls in November could be critical for the party's efforts to make gains in Springfield and send U.S. Sen. Mark Kirk back to the Senate ... Gov. Bruce Rauner received a standing ovation in advance of a speech hotly critical of Democrats at a time when he faces trying to cut a budget deal with leaders of the party in Springfield and another budget deadline in less than 10 days ... Kirk ... didn't speak at the convention's main event Saturday. Campaign manager Kevin Artl said Kirk spoke at an event Friday night, but had fundraisers elsewhere scheduled Saturday." 
<<link>> 

** A message from Nuclear Matters: Illinois' nuclear energy plants provide 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity and contribute nearly $9 billion to our economy. Without Illinois policymakers' support for the Next Generation Energy Plan, two plants - Clinton and Quad Cities - could be forced to close, jeopardizing these benefits and thousands of jobs. Learn more: domain.com ** 

ONE MAN, ONE WOMAN, GOP PARTY PLATFORM -- "Illinois Republicans will remain the party of "marriage between one man and one woman," by Peoria Journal Star's Chris Kaergard:"Meeting in Peoria, delegates to the state GOP convention voted overwhelmingly to retain a plank in their platform of guiding principles calling for that stance instead of a proposed change that touted the benefits of the traditional, nuclear family and First Amendment religious freedoms while declaring that diverse opinions were welcomed and 'that non-traditional families are worthy of the same respect and legal protections as traditional families.' Though that proposed language change cleared the party's platform
 committee 11-7 after a lengthy meeting Friday, opponents successfully sought a floor debate and vote on an issue by the full contingent of delegates at what was billed as the highest-attendance GOP convention in state history with 968 credentialed attendees." <<link>> 

WHAT DOES RAUNER THINK? -- "Rauner Won't Weigh In On Gay Marriage, Other Potential Illinois GOP Platforms,"by WBEZ's Lauren Chooljian and Tony Arnold: "Gov. Rauner, who has called himself the leader of the Illinois Republican Party, told reporters Friday that he would not be weighing in on any party platforms. 'I'm not gonna weigh in on particular platform issues. I'm going to leave that,' he said when asked about his position on same-sex marriage. 'That's what the delegates role is to do and I don't want to jump ahead of that or preempt on that. I think they should do their jobs and let the will of the delegates, the will of the voters decide these issues.'" 
<<link>> 

RAUNER'S NONPARTISAN SUNDAY PLEA COMES AFTER SATURDAY PARTISAN PLEA -- "Day after partisan speech, Rauner urges Democrats to compromise," by Chicago Tribune's Kim Geiger: "One day after a partisan pep talk in which he told Republicans they must pick off Speaker Michael Madigan's Democrats in the November election, Gov. Bruce Rauner on Sunday suggested the opposition party should help him reach a grand compromise on a state budget. Rauner's call came as lawmakers prepared to return to Springfield for the final days of the regular session, which is scheduled to end May 31. By calling a rare Sunday news conference to make his case, the governor was trying to set the tone for the week, casting
 himself as willing to compromise and sending the ball into Democrats' court. 

Rauner on Sunday: 'This is not about partisan politics ... This is about coming together to get to compromises to reform our economic climate, grow jobs, grow family incomes, get more value for taxpayers. Right now, we've got nine days left. I'm excited, I'm optimistic that we can come together with the General Assembly and get bipartisan reforms done." 

Rauner on Saturday: "Rauner called on Republican supporters to help 'bring in the resources and put together the biggest ground game that's ever been done in legislative races in Illinois history,' in order to 'pick up seats against (Democratic House Speaker) Mike Madigan's Democrats and the Chicago Democratic machine." <<link>>  

Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 

SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 

HUMAN SERVICES BILL IN LIMBO -- "Voice of The Southern: Gov. Rauner, sign SB2038," the Southern's Editorial Board: "We urge the governor to sign SB2038 ... Because all 167 'yay' votes in the General Assembly realize that the $700 million contains zero dollars from the state's General Revenue Fund. That's correct: the out-of-balance state revenue and expense picture is in no way impacted by this bill. It's money that MUST be spent on human services. $450 million comes from a dedicated 'Commitment to Human Services Fund' while the remaining $250 million comes from other state and federal (pass-through) funds. Ironic that the Governor is hesitant to release money from a 'Commitment to Human
 Services' fund, don't you think? Perhaps a commitment to 'winning' has clouded his sight." <<link>> 

DOESN'T SOUND LIKE A YES (right now at least) -- "Rauner dodges question on funding state's most needy," by Sun-Times' Mitch Dudek: "Gov. Bruce Rauner on Sunday dodged the question of whether he will sign a bill on his desk that provides $700 million in emergency funding for groups that provide social services to the state's most vulnerable residents. 'These short-term fixes aren't really where we should focus our time,' he said, characterizing the legislation as a 'short-term Band-Aid,' ... Rauner also ... said ... that many Democrats agree with his reform platform in private but have yet to voice their support in public. 'Most of them, so far, are only willing to say it privately, but
 they're coming together and they're talking to their leaders and they're working in good faith, so I'm encouraging them ... I don't want to get out in front of them, but I'm encouraging them, please stand up and do what you say in private you know is right, you know is the right thing to do, let's get a grand compromise.'" <<link>> 

Adding ... Rauner has 60 days from May 18 to sign the bill and may be waiting to first see if a budget is passed before May 31. 

#PROGRESS -- "David McSweeney bill to rein in Illinois local government expenses headed to governor," by the Northwest Herald's Kevin P. Craver: "A bill aimed at cracking down on public officials dining and traveling at taxpayers' expense is headed to Gov. Bruce Rauner's desk to be signed into law. House Bill 4379, filed by state Rep. David McSweeney, R-Barrington Hills, seeks to domain.com the amount of money that non-home-rule governments can spend on travel, meals and lodging, and outright bans spending on entertainment expenses such as movies, sports events and theatrical productions. McSweeney filed the bill in January in response to a number of reports from news agencies and watchdog
 groups highlighting questionable expenses by local officials." <<link>> 

RUMOR WON'T DIE -- Will Dick Durbin Run for Governor in 2018? By WTTW's Paris Schutz: "Sources in the Democratic Party, progressive and labor circles are all buzzing about the possibility of Illinois' senior U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin challenging Gov. Bruce Rauner in 2018, with some saying it is more than innuendo and that the talk is emanating from Durbin's Illinois office. 'It's coming from his political staff," said a state labor leader. "They've talked to me, asking questions like, 'Would you be supportive?' and just generally asking people's opinions.' ... But Durbin's spokesperson quickly shot down any talk of 2018. "He's focused on his job as senator and has no plans to do anything else,"
 says Christina Angarola." <<link>> 

CITY  

TWO-MILE EMOTIONAL PRAYER LINE FOR MURDER VICTIMS -- "'Chicago Is Getting Out Of Hand': Rally Shows Human Toll Of City Violence," by DNAinfo's Andrea Watson: "Thousands of people dressed in red took up 42 blocks along 79th Street Saturday morning to raise awareness about skyrocketing gun violence in the city. 'We refuse to live in fear' said John F. Hannah, pastor of Grand Crossing's New Life Covenant Church. His church spearheaded the event, which brought together more than 4,000 people from across the city ... The anti-violence "Prayer on the 9" gathering is in its sixth year ... Participants in the two-mile prayer line from Greenwood Avenue to the Dan Ryan Expressway wore red,
 representing the blood that has been shed, Hannah said ... There was a three minute moment of silence where only signs blowing in the wind and people crying on the ground could be heard. Many people held up photos of their deceased loved one." <<link>> 

WHERE'S RAHM'S PRESSURE ON MADIGAN? -- "Emanuel wimps out again in clash with Madigan over CPS aid," by Crain's Greg Hinz: "Claypool and Emanuel have been far more taciturn on a related plan: a bill already approved by the Illinois Senate that would give CPS a desperately needed $375 million boost next year. In fact, they haven't said a word, even though House Speaker Mike Madigan could allow the bill to come up for a vote any time ... Welcome to the latest chapter in the story of Emanuel's fawning relationship with the speaker. The mayor may be pleading and stroking behind the scenes. But in reality, there's absolutely no doubt who wears the pants ... I asked folks in the mayor's office
 and CPS if they wanted to comment. I got this statement, which gives milquetoast a bad name: 'CPS leadership and City Hall are in regular contact with legislative leadership in both chambers, and we're encouraged that they're committed to addressing education funding during this legislative session.' 

In denial: "Right, guys. Keep telling yourself that. Maybe you can put it to music while, like that orchestra on the deck of the Titanic, Chicago Public Schools slips under the waves." <<link>> 

CPS IN A DIFFERENT MESS -- "Hard to duplicate Illinois' 1980 CPS rescue," by Better Government Association's Andy Shaw: "Today's CPS crisis is much worse than 1980-a billion dollar shortfall caused by unchecked overspending on bureaucracy and union contracts, a gigantic pension bill finally coming due, and arguably insufficient state funding. This time there's apparently no viable rescue plan. Governor Bruce Rauner suggested CPS consider bankruptcy ... A Springfield intervention actually made sense in 1980-Illinois was in decent shape financially-but today the state can't pass a budget, pay its bills or solve its own pension crisis, and its domain.com rating, like CPS and the City of Chicago,
 is in the toilet. That prompted one wag to compare the takeover flap to a child custody battle between two dysfunctional parents-pity the children. Not surprisingly, Rauner's plan died before the comedy riffs intensified." <<link>> 

The dysfunctional quote, at least here was: "It's like taking kids away from the junkie mother and giving them to the alcoholic father." -- a lobbyist summing up the intelligence behind allowing a struggling Illinois take over a struggling CPS and Chicago. 

KAREN LEWIS SUPPORTS MANAR BILL AS 'FIRST STEP' -- Chicago Newsroom's Ken Davis interviews Lewis: Lewis (at 7:00) "We support Senate Bill 231 as a first step. It's not a solution to the problem. And while it does look like it's taking from the rich and giving to the poor, what it does is it starts us on a road to equity. Not equality, but equity. And I think that people don't understand the difference between the two concepts. Especially when you use property taxes as the majority of funding for public schools, there's always going to be this huge gap - an inequality - from the very beginning. So if we're going to evaluate people equally, then we have to have some sort of funding formula
 that works. I mean, it's easy. Go to the wealthier school districts. Look at their buildings. Look at their curriculum. Look at what they have to offer. It's quite different from what you see in many of our schools." 

Why she's not standing on the same stage with Forrest Claypool: "The problem is, they want us on their bus. I'm not getting on the crazy train with these people. I want to have real solutions that figure out how to deal structurally with these issues." <<link>> 

FED JUDGE INSISTS ON HAVING RAHM ON STAND -- "Whistleblower case will involve Mayor Emanuel," by the Associated Press: "Attorneys for the city of Chicago have told a federal judge they are prepared to domain.com to a jury that a code of silence exists within the police department in an attempt to keep Mayor Rahm Emanuel off the witness stand. But U.S. District Judge Gary Feinerman said Friday he would still ask Emanuel to testify in the case of two whistleblower police officers suing the city, explaining that the mayor's testimony could offer 'much more texture' on the issue. Legal experts said it was likely the city would settle rather than allow Emanuel to take the stand in the case, which is
 set to go to trial May 31. But they said the city's willingness to have attorneys formally acknowledge a code of silence in court was a significant step after years of denials." <<link>> 

TODAY'S SUN-TIMES' COVER; 'DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE': "New study shows traces of spine in Chicago City Council," by Chicago Sun-Times' Fran Spielman: "Long known as a rubber stamp for Chicago mayors, the City Council has been showing rare signs of independence ... It gained momentum after Emanuel was deeply wounded by his handling of the Laquan McDonald shooting video. Now there's hard evidence of that political pushback by aldermen who no longer fear a mayor whose powerful veneer has been lifted: a study of City Council voting patterns by the University of Illinois at Chicago's Department of Political Science. The report shows that the number of divided roll calls surged dramatically -
 from 67 during Emanuel's first four years in office to 32 over a 10-month period ending in mid-April. During Emanuel's first term, 37 aldermen - 74 percent of the 50-member City Council - supported the mayor at least 90 percent of the time. That reliable bloc of support has dropped to 28 aldermen, or 56 percent. That's only two votes more than needed to pass legislation." <<link>> 

DUCKWORTH CAMPAIGNS - in East St. Louis today where she will go on an urban gardens tour then meet with local media. 

Kirk's new digital ad on Duckworth headed to civil trial in August: <<link>> 

LOCAL MURDER FEATURED IN NEW DOC -- "Documentary on murder of Rolling Meadows student airs Wednesday," Daily Herald staff report: "A documentary about the 2015 downstate murder of Shannon McNamara, a college student from Rolling Meadows, airs Wednesday night on the Investigation Discovery channel. The one-hour episode, entitled "Grim Reaper," is part of the six-episode "Murder U" series that examines murders that have taken place on college campuses. McNamara, a Rolling Meadows High School graduate and aspiring teacher, was killed during her senior year at Eastern Illinois University in Charleston. Anthony Mertz was convicted in 2015 of breaking into her apartment, then strangling and
 mutilating her. He is currently serving life in prison after his death sentence was among those commuted when Gov. Pat Quinn abolished the death penalty in 2011." <<link>> 



COMPELLING READ -- "Fifty years later, the first campus massacre lives on,"by the Los Angeles Times' Molly Hennessy-Fiske: "The entrance to the tower looming over the University of Texas here is inscribed with the Bible verse John 8:32 in massive block letters: "Ye shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free." It befits academic life at one of the country's premier public universities. But the tower is best known as the perch from which a former Marine sniper carried out what is widely considered the nation's first mass shooting. In that sense, the inscription speaks to a different quest for truth: the truth about who killed the killer that August day 50 years ago. The question
 still hangs over the man who has long been celebrated as the hero. It hangs over the family of the man who went to his grave believing he deserved more domain.com. None of them, it seems, will ever be free." <<link>> 

 Headlines:  

"Michelle Fields joins The Huffington Post, to cover Trump," by POLITICO's Hadas Gold  



<<link>>  

"This Is What the Future of American Politics Looks Like. This year, we're seeing the end of a partisan realignment, and the beginning of a policy one - and U.S. politics is about to change big-time," by Michael Lind for POLITICO Magazine: <<link>>  

TODAY's EVENTS courtesy of IntelligentEvent @Chi_Intellevent 

Former US Attorney General Eric Holder - Institute of Politics - Less than a year after leaving his post as US Attorney General, Eric Holder joins the IOP for a discussion of his experience at the Justice Department, politics, civil rights, more. A veteran of the Obama administration, Holder served as the nation's top attorney from 2015 to 2015 during which he took on issues like criminal justice, terrorism, immigration, and same-sex marriage. Given his incredible breadth of experience in politics and law, Holder will provide his insights on current issues and the direction of the country. 

More than One Bad Apple: Police Oversight and Systemic Change - Institute of Politics - Dr. Daniel Isom II, a national leader in policing and criminal justice research and studies, former St. Louis Chief of Police, will explore the process to investigate police misconduct. 

CYR May Meeting with Emily Zanotti - Chicago Young Republicans - The Chicago Young Republicans welcome Emily Zanotti ... to discuss her experiences working in politics in Chicago, her thoughts on the 2015 election, as well as her contributions to the book Love Her, Lover Her Not: The Hillary Paradox 

WHERE'S RAHM? No schedule provided; mayor will announce new paving schedule in neighborhoods. 

WHERE'S RAUNER? At the governor's office in Springfield with GOP leaders "and job creators" to discuss "what's at stake in final week of regular session." 

** A message from Nuclear Matters: Some of America's existing nuclear energy plants face early closure due to current economic and policy conditions. Providing more than 62% of America's carbon-free electricity, existing, state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon reduction goals.

In Illinois, our nuclear energy plants provide 48 percent of the state's electricity and 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity. The existing nuclear energy plants also contribute nearly $9 billion to the economy and support approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs. 

But today Illinois doesn't properly value these plants for their carbon-free contributions, placing them in economic jeopardy. Without support from Illinois policymakers for the Next Generation Energy Plan to close this gap, two plants - Clinton and Quad Cities - could be forced to close, jeopardizing thousands of jobs along with many other economic and environmental benefits. Learn more at domain.com ** 

READ more Illinois and Chicago news from POLITICO Illinois: <<link>> 



What Works Denver -- THE MILE-HIGH MASS TRANSIT MIRACLE The newest installment of POLITICO Magazine's "What Works" series explores how Denver was able to do what many cities have tried and failed: build a rail system that is a model for 21st-century growth. While other major cities are making headlines for domain.com systems in decline, Denver is on a fast-track in the other direction. <<link>> 

SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
 <<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 

To view online:
<<link>>
 To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA

To unsubscribe,<<link>>

