Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org ([fe80::ac16:e03c:a689:8203%11]) with mapi id
 14.03.0224.002; Thu, 5 May 2015 10:20:47 -0400
From: "Berns, Jeremy" <BernsJ@dnc.org>
To: "User" <user@domain.com>, Comm_D <user@domain.com>
Subject: RE: Video Request: Trump on Squawk Box
Thread-Topic: Video Request: Trump on Squawk Box
Thread-Index: AdGmyC7mgea0ii9vQZ2B63NXB6OBYQADTnMQAABJCOAAAJV9kAAAFlbw
Date: Thu, 5 May 2015 07:20:47 -0700
Message-ID: <0user@domain.com>
References: <user@domain.com>
 <user@domain.com>
 <6283user@domain.com>
 <0user@domain.com>
In-Reply-To: <0user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.176.215]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_0A24D69CAA041B4B822384049F69311B6F117E69dncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

20:00-about 30:30

Trump: people who have done far less have had their lives destroyed re: HRC. She will win nomination over the next month or so

Bernie is fighting crooked HRC.

Think she would be easier to beat than Bernie bc she has so much baggage

Q: How to defeat HRC. How mean or nasty can you be?

I never debated professionally before.

I won Drudge polls, online polls. I won all polls in all debates.

I sort of like debating. I was center-stage on every debate

HRC is not a bad debater. I think they will be positive for me. I sort of wish we had more than 3. I think we should have more than 3 if you want to know the truth

Q: domain.com Yellen. Not right person for the job? Should she raise rates or no?

Nothing against domain.com Yellen whatsoever. Don't know her, she is very capable

She is not a Republican, I most likely would replace her. She is a low interest rate person. I am also a low interest rate person

If dollar gets too strong with low interest rates we can be in trouble

Japan is killing us on trade

Devaluation is single greatest tool countries can use against us. China is like the grand master of all grand masters of it

If inflation starts coming in, that's a different story. But right now, I want low interest rates

When dollar started going up, we are going to lose all our business

All my friends do in China is watch the value of the US dollar. They just want to see it go up. They love to see it go up. It sounds better to have a strong dollar than it actually is

We have $19 trillion in debt. We are paying a low interest rate, but if it goes a little up, we don't have a country. The numbers are staggering. If interest rates went up 2-5 points we could be in trouble

I am the king of debt. I love debt, I like playing with it.

Q: Premium increases coming bc of ACA. What could you do without legislation.

If you go back, I said 2015 and 2015 is going to be a total disaster bc of the ACA. It's the ACA. Numbers will be staggering for people and the country

You need to repeal and replace Obamacare. Its good for almost no one.

We have to get something better than what we have right now

Deductibles are going up to numbers that no one can believe. You need to almost die to be able to use it.

ACA is a total failure and a disaster

Q: King of debt and renegotiated debt agreements over the years

I borrowed knowing you can pay back with discounts. Of course I was swash-buckling and it did well for me that was good for me. Debt was always sort of interesting to me but now we are in a different situation with a country.

I borrowed knowing that if the economy crashed  I could make a deal. Its like making a deal before going into a poker game

Q: Are you suggesting we would negotiate with the US domain.com

No I think there are times for us to refinance debt with longer term. We owe so much longer with longer term

Nobody talks about it but the bubble could pop. We have seen that, and it looks ugly. It was bad, but you haven't seen it as bad as it could be

From: "Berns, Jeremy" <BernsJ@dnc.org>
Sent: Thursday, May 05, 2015 10:18 AM
To: Comm_D
Subject: RE: Video Request: Trump on Squawk Box

Through about 20:30. Says his tax plan is open for negotiation

Thinks regulatory/tax reform can cause GDP to grow
When China goes down to 7 percent growth, they go crazy and into a recession.
We have basically 0 growth, maybe less - how are they coming up with these numbers?
Dodd-Frank has to be eliminated or changed. So many friends who can't do business with the banks
Regulators running the banks.
I'm not blaming banks, I'm blaming regulations

Taxes - one critique is that tax cuts go to top 1%. How do you square that?
I will say this. When you put out tax plan, there are negotiations back and forth and I can see that going up. We are cutting - I don't want middle going up but I can see "that" going up. Wealthy have dozen well, I'm not complaining.  (it's choppy but I think he implies he'd raise taxes on the rich)
People haven't had a wage increase. These people who come to my rallies, many of them haven't had raise in 20 years and some are making less money now than 20 years ago but their taxes are higher. That's why they don't like either party, conservatives or liberals.
Cruz debate with Trump supporter - these people are smart, hard-working but have been disenfranchised.

Who would you rather run against, HRC or Bernie?
The system rigged against him. The system rigged against me, this wasn't supposed to happen.

The people of the country great, have had bad leadership, unfair tax policy and we'll straighten it out so everyone benefits.

Doesn't want to say who he'd rather run against. Bernie can't make it so its irrelevant. Super delegates are ridiculous. He would be easier probably, he's a socialist/communist. She's going to be just fine.

You need to be able to raise a lot of money. You'll raise a lot of money from people you maybe haven't gotten along with. How will that work?
It's a long answer. I have great relationships with so many, especially business. I was harsh on Bush family and that's why they want to sit it out, I don't care. We're going to have some people who don't want to play the game. Doesn't matter if they don't want to endorse. I'm watching HRC fighting Bernie. I was supposed to go on until July. I'm now watching her fight it out. She'll win because the system rigged unless she gets indicted but she's being protected by the Democrats. She should be because she's so guilty. Bernie can't win because he's fighting crooked HRC.

From: "Berns, Jeremy" <BernsJ@dnc.org>
Sent: Thursday, May 05, 2015 10:17 AM
To: Nordyke, Hannah; Roberts, Kelly; Research_D
Subject: RE: Video Request: Trump on Squawk Box

2:40 (start of interview) to 12:40

TRUMP:

Q: Any chance your VP is somebody who also ran for president?

-          40% chance his VP comes from the group of also-ran candidates

-          I've had a good relationship with Kasich, probably unlikely that it'll be john, not sure that john even wants it

-          Do think it's important that VP be a governor or a congressman because I'm a businessman and I've got that covered

-          Would be good to have somebody who could help with legislation, instead of me signing executive orders all day long

-          Always the first criteria for VP is someone who can take over if something happens

-          When Obama picked Biden, nobody understood it because Biden had run and not done so well; now we see they have a good rapport

Q: How about this American Action Forum report that says your immigration plan will cost billions?

-          The report is not right, "they don't have it right"

-          "I'm not a shrinker of economies, I'm a grower of economies."

-          We don't use the people that are on your show to negotiate trade deals, we use political hacks

-          I want to renegotiate trade agreements

Q: Executive orders?

-          We want to get rid of regulations

-          People talk about regulations more than taxes

-          But we're lowering taxes, we're the highest taxed nation in the world

-          Getting rid of a tremendous amount of reguations

-          Also having to do with energy, it's so, so difficult for our country

-          Says that he believes in solar energy

-          "I use solar"

-          Re: solar: It's a thirty year payback though, they don't have it perfected

Q: We're not growing fast enough. Will regulatory reform give us more growth?

-          Yes, I do

-          If china ever had low GDP growth, it'd be a disaster

-          And here we have almost 0% growth, could even be less

-          How are they even coming up with these massive numbers, how are they even doing it?

-          Impossible to do business with banks with Dodd Frank

-          Regulatory climate so bad that banks aren't loaning to businesses

From: "Berns, Jeremy" <BernsJ@dnc.org>
Sent: Thursday, May 05, 2015 9:54 AM
To: Roberts, Kelly; Research_D
Subject: RE: Video Request: Trump on Squawk Box

Watch<<<link>>>

-----Original Message-----
From: "Berns, Jeremy" <BernsJ@dnc.org>
Sent: Thursday, May 05, 2015 8:18 AM
To: Research_D
Subject: Video Request: Trump on Squawk Box

Earlier this morning. Thanks!

Sent from my iPhone
