Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org ([fe80::ac16:e03c:a689:8203%11]) with mapi id
 14.03.0224.002; Sun, 15 May 2015 09:15:24 -0400
From: "Miller, Lindsey" <MillerL@dnc.org>
To: Comm_D <user@domain.com>
Subject: Fox News Sunday
Thread-Topic: Fox News Sunday
Thread-Index: AdGuqcsCTOFnyb+DRpmjR9qgt8OZRA==
Date: Sun, 15 May 2015 06:15:23 -0700
Message-ID: <0user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-Auto-Response-Suppress: DR, OOF, AutoReply
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.185.18]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_0AEF0DAD77B17941B9B592E5CEBCA70D6F89D141dncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

Reince (this is pretty brutal)

NYT article on Trump and women and repeated instances of Trump insulting women. Bother you?
A lot of things bother me and I'm the wrong person to ask that question

Why is that? That's your nominee
We've been working on this primary for a year and I think these stories that come out, people don't care. People look at Trump and Clinton and say 'how will bring earthquake to DC?' Bigger issue if stones being thrown at glass houses. Trump's personal life not something people looking it, not surprised Trump has girlfriends

Whether he mistreated women, made unwanted advances, humiliated women. I don't understand why you think people don't care, will you look into this?
Not saying people don't care. He is where he is because he is much different from traditional candidate. Everything bothers me but I don't know the ruth of this. Trump will have to answer questions on this. After a year of different stories, nothing applies. All I'm saying. Bigger question is who represents something who brings more efficient accountable DC, career politician or outsider with potentially some flaws?

Question of character is important. Trump brings up Clintons' character. Trump used to pretend to be John Miller. (plays clip and Trump denial) Trump admitted it was him in 90s and testified as such. Real question, what do you say to women voters who will hear this?
I think each individual person should evaluate our nominee based on answers he gives but also look at what's at stake and whether HRC will bring change. A story of 30 years ago is not the most important thing when you look at HRC and Clinton Foundation being charged with exchanging access to cash, Benghazi, instead we're talking about this planted story. Old playbook isn't applying in this election. I get that this is interesting but it won't move dial.

Trump's refusal to release tax returns until domain.com complete. Won't give effective tax rate. Every nominee since Nixon has released their returns. Transparency we can expect?
I'm not sure. Romney released taxes late and payed a dear price for it playing games and it turned out to not be good for us in 2012. But I don't know if Americans care. He will domain.com or suffer based on if they do. So far most things voters don't care about. Who will blow up system and bring change? People are angry and want something done and think Trump can do it.

Don't you think HRC has been vetted. Isn't it legitimate to look at who Trump is? Bob Woodward says 20 reporters at the Post looking at Trump. We don't know much about him.
I'm not saying it's not legitimate, I just don't think it will affect peoples view of Trump. I don't have a problem with reporters looking at things but they should look at HRC and her treatment of women and how she acted at Foundation and Benghazi. There is a reason HRC still stuck in the mud. Issues that apply to Trump so big and fundamental and universal that these individual things, I don't think they will hit him.

Trump met with Paul Ryan. You were in the room. Yesterday Ryan spoke to GOP state convention and said he was not ready to endorse Trump. (clip) How confident are you Ryan will endorse and how long will that take?
I don't speak for Ryan but I can tell you both guys came in expecting a good meeting and left after a great meeting. I'd be surprised if we didn't get there soon. Ryan wouldn't say the things he said just to say them. He wants to understand Trump.

Report today that a number of conservatives are talking about 3rd party bid. How seriously do you take that?
I take it seriously but law makes it difficult. They could hijack another party but it's a suicide mission because you are throwing 8 years down WH and 100 years on the Supreme Court. Other ways to get assurances on things they are worried about.

What would you say to Mitt Romney and Bill Kristol?
Consider the ramifications on Supreme Court. Talk to Trump and get assurances on judges.
