Received: from DNCDAG1.dnc.org ([fe80::f85f:3b98:e405:6ebe]) by
 DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org ([fe80::ac16:e03c:a689:8203%11]) with mapi id
 14.03.0224.002; Thu, 5 May 2015 11:01:50 -0400
From: "Walsh, Tom" <WalshT@dnc.org>
To: RR2 <user@domain.com>
CC: "Kroll, Amy" <user@domain.com>, "Guerra, Liana" <user@domain.com>,
	"User" <user@domain.com>, "Paustenbach, Mark"
	<user@domain.com>, "Walker, Eric" <user@domain.com>, Kate Houghton
	<user@domain.com>, "Banfill, Ryan" <user@domain.com>
Subject: For research: DWS Remarks for DNCC Exec Committee Reception
Thread-Topic: For research: DWS Remarks for DNCC Exec Committee Reception
Thread-Index: AdGm3wMqf1kMzGXAQ8KmND/zzXOrkw==
Date: Thu, 5 May 2015 08:01:49 -0700
Message-ID: <58user@domain.com>
Accept-Language: en-US
Content-Language: en-US
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthAs: Internal
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthMechanism: 04
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-AuthSource: DNCHUBCAS1.dnc.org
X-MS-Has-Attach: 
X-MS-Exchange-Organization-SCL: -1
X-MS-TNEF-Correlator: 
x-originating-ip: [192.168.177.11]
Content-Type: multipart/alternative;
	boundary="_000_58DA80C24739E947B1356AA9CCED48FFEA697Ddncdag1dncorg_"
MIME-Version: 1.0

OrganizationChair Debbie Wasserman Schultz
OrganizationState of the Union Reception
5.5.16 Kimmel Center - 6 p.m.
6 min remarks

Intro

Thank you Governor Rendell! We're so lucky to have a true Pennsylvania legend serving so graciously as the Philadelphia Host Committee Chair.

Let me start by thanking everyone on the Executive Committee, all our community leaders and members of the Host Committee for your tireless work and commitment to our Party.

I know you lead busy lives, but we can't pull off a successful convention without you.

Let me also thank our CEO, the unparalleled Reverend, Leah Daughtry for her tireless work. We are so fortunate to have a lifelong Democrat of Leah's passion and expertise steering the ship;

And of course I need to thank the honorable Mayor Jim Kenney, as well as all the wonderful people of Philadelphia who he represents.

We are enormously grateful that you're hosting and warmly welcoming all the Democrats bringing their enthusiasm, energy, and passion as we arrive in greater and greater numbers over the next few months.

And I know Mayor Kenney appreciates all the commerce we'll be bringing with us as conference goers domain.com Philly's great restaurants, hotels and small businesses.

Gearing up

We're just 80 days away from our Convention, and we've been making all the right moves to ensure we'll be one hundred percent prepared at kickoff time.

We are on time, on budget and ready to run a beautiful convention.

But as proud as I am of what we're doing, I have to mention how proud I am of who is doing it.

Each day, as our numbers grow, we're making sure that our diversity does too.

As Democrats, we believe our diversity is our great strength.

That shows in the ranks of the DNC, where last year thirty-six percent of our employees were people of color. And we've awarded at least 35 percent of our contracts to companies owned by women, veterans, minorities, people with disabilities and members of the LGBT community.

And when the nation looks at our convention, they'll see a domain.com of America.
Our Party Affairs and Delegate Selection team has worked tirelessly to ensure that every state party has an accessible and inclusive process for anyone to run to become a delegate. Whether it's a school teacher in Orlando, a plumber in Cleveland, or a high school student in Denver, our convention delegates will reflect the diversity our Party.

Dangerous Donald

But before anyone casts a vote to nominate the next Democratic president of the United States, let me give you a little update from the DNC.

Today, and every day until Election Day, we are laser focused on take down holding Dangerous Donald Trump accountable - and winning seats up and down the ballot in every race across the country.

With every other candidate out of the race, Trump is the Republican Party.

We are not going to let anyone forget hold him accountable for everything he has said and everything he has done. And we are going to hold the GOP accountable for everything they're doing -- to obstruct, divide, and drag our country backwards.

The facts are simple:

Dangerous Donald is domain.com to be president. He only looks out for himself. He lacks the temperament and judgment to be commander in chief. And every aspect of his presidency would harm our country and damage our standing in the world.

Even as a candidate, Dangerous Donald has damaged America's relationships across the globe. In the White House, he would undeniably make America less safe.

He has no foreign policy experience - but don't worry about that - he said he'll rely on his "good brain," instead of listening to experts. Dangerous.

He has a decades-long record of denigrating women. Seven out of ten women disapprove of his candidacy.

He exploits racial anxieties and cultural fears to the point where his rallies have sparked violence against people of color, protestors, and the media. And recent reports found that bullying at schools is on the rise as a result of his hateful rhetoric. He's making our communities less safe and he hasn't even gotten into office.

And while he tries to paint a picture of his wealth and business success, his record is riddled with embarrassing failures and cheap schemes that are designed to turn a quick a buck at the expense of his workers or everyday Americans.

I'll spare you all the details, but trust me - that's the short version of what the American people are going to be hearing about Dangerous Donald over the coming months.

You know, there's a reason why we saw Republicans across the country this week tweeting photos of their burning voter registration cards this week.

Advantage, Democrats

Well, we have a message for anyone disillusioned and disaffected by this year's unprecedentedly nasty and divisive Republican primary - we have a message for anyone disgusted by Donald: You have a home in the Democratic Party.

We have the best candidates, the best ideas, and a fantastic record of social and economic progress under President Obama to run on - 73 consecutive months of private sector job growth and 20 million Americans who have health insurance who didn't before.

In poll after poll, Democratic voters are reporting that our primary and our candidates have energized our party.

In Nevada, voter registration among Democrats is beating Republicans two-to-one.

So no matter what challenges lie ahead in the planning and execution of our convention, let me just say, clearly and unequivocally - I am really, really glad we are not planning the Republican convention.

And I am absolutely optimistic about the future of the Democratic Party.

Conclusion

Finally, I'll just say, this convention is about so much more than the spectacle of big political speeches under red-white-and-blue balloons and confetti, although I think we might have some of that in store...

This is about the direction of our nation.

This is about the power of the people to come together and choose the best leader for the job.

And no matter which of our candidates they choose, they'll be fighting every day for all Americans.

We're fighting to level the playing field, raise wages, ensure equal pay, end discrimination, expand voting rights, make our country and our communities more secure and fighting to give hardworking Americans everywhere a fair shot.

When it comes time to nominate our choices for President and Vice President, with your help, we will unify, fight together as Democrats.

And friends, when the convention ends, we will go roaring into the general election with all the passion, domain.com and energy it takes to elect Democrats from the top of the ticket down.

So thank you for all your work, thank you for your commitment to our party, and enjoy the rest of the evening. Thank you.

