HOLLAND '08
Brian Holland For President
www.Holland08.com <<<link>>>
HOPE FOR AMERICAN PATRIOTS
For Immediate Release
May 24, 2008
Brian Holland, the nation's first Pro White candidate for President,
announced a sweeping economic proposal today that would slash the United
States' Federal Budget for 2009 by the staggering amount of
$172,505,000,000.00. Holland, who is the only Presidential candidate
endorsed by the National Socialist Movement, the nation's largest Pro White
organization, has vowed that the nation's economy should be the focus when
hunting for problems.
"It is clear to anyone who is capable of at least elementary school math",
said Holland, "that our federal budget is a shambles. We have federal
departments receiving tens of billions of dollars to do work that other
departments are receiving money to do. It is estimated that by the end of
2009, the United States' deficit will be approximately four hundred billion,
that's billion, dollars. This is at a time when foreclosures surged 112% in
the first quarter of this year, in some places, California for instance,
mortgage foreclosures are up over 300%. Yet, our federal government spends
and spends. Four point eight billion dollars to finance foreign nations'
militaries; one point five billion dollars paid to the United Nations for
international peacekeeping; five hundred and thirty four million dollars to
pay for people to convert their older televisions to digital televisions. I
have worked with my advisors and my team, and have developed a federal
budget that would easily shave nearly one hundred and seventy three billion
dollars from the 2009  proposed federal budget. If I can do that sitting
here, in my office, what is the excuse in Washington? The answer is simple,
I have no one to answer to but you, while the traitors in Washington have to
answer to the holders of the purse strings."
Brian Holland is the first mainstream Pro White candidate to appear on
ballots across the nation. His campaign committee, American Patriots for
Brian Holland, is working closely with the NSM and several other White
Rights organizations world wide to spread the word and educate the people.
The Holland campaign is the only campaign that is laying out real solutions
for real problems in the 2008 race.
