Crew,
Happy 4th of July!
200+ years ago, the United States of America shook off
the suppression of English rule. The people named what
they wanted - freedom. They wanted freedom, they
demanded freedom, and they got freedom.
However, in today's world we have a new kind of
suppression, much more subtle and insidious,
psychiatry.
Psychiatric interests do not want you to live free.
Perhaps you are free of psych influence now and will
remain so, but can you stand by while millions are
denied that freedom?
In today's New Orleans Times-Picayune, there is a LONG
article. Read it if you must but I'll summarize it for
you in a few words, "Psychiatry and drug companies are
cashing in on Hurricane Katrina". The story is all
about how Katrina's victims are "stressed" and need
mental health treatment. You can translate that to
drugs, very expensive stays in psych hospitals and
ECT. Basically it's an appeal for more money.
Write a letter to the editor. You can put almost
anything in the letter provided that you tell the
truth about psychiatry.
I suggest you point out that no medical tests exists
for these "disorders", like post-traumatic stress
disorder, so that fraud will be rampant. I also
suggest that you point out there is no evidence that
treating people with drugs does any good in the long
run, and that the drugs themselves are KNOWN to cause
suicide.
And here's a good theme for a few of you - "Now is the
very wrong time to drug people out of consciousness,
awareness and ability. Right now they need to rebuild
their homes, businesses, and lives, not be turned into
disabled mental patient living on the dole".
You can also point out that even on the first page,
there is a demonstration that the drugs don't work.
Mr. Harrell can't sleep and has to add his "tonic" of
alcohol, very dangerous to mix with psychiatric drugs.
Write whatever you want; be creative.
Here is the link to the article if you want to read
it. Warning, it's 6 pages long. The first page is at
the bottom of this email.
<<link>>
50.xml&coll=1
Send your letter to user@domain.com.
And report compliance by email.
Thank you!
Enjoy your holiday!
Doyle
