FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
The National Socialist Movement, the nation's largest White Rights
organization, was in full force this past weekend in Washington, DC. On the
lawn of the United States Capitol Building, a new step was taken in
advancing the cause that the NSM has fought for since 1974. Brian Holland,
an NSM member and 20 year veteran of the White Rights Movement, announced
that he had accepted the Party's nomination for President of the United
States.
Holland, an award winning former journalist, 17 year veteran radio talk show
host, television producer, and longtime supporter of the Movement, announced
briefly that he would be seeking the Presidency. In a brief interview after
the NSM's National Rally, Holland explained the cornerstones of his
candidacy:
"This nation and this world needs leadership that is prepared to face the
real issues, the real problems. The United States needs to see its interest
rates dropped and held at a reasonable rate.
We need to make it possible for those that need to be provided for are
indeed provided for.
We need to guarantee this nation's freedoms, regardless of your stand or
your beliefs, we need to guarantee that you have the right to express it
peacefully.
This nation needs to develop a real plan to end the quagmire in Iraq, and to
bring our brave men and women home from battle.
Taxation needs to be overhauled, and we need to follow the examples of the
former Soviet Bloc nations who have implemented a flat tax for all citizens.
Those former Easter Bloc nations are now flourishing because of their fair
and equal taxation system.
Our borders need to be protected at all costs. Borders, language, and
culture needs to be the backbone of our efforts.
Crime has to be met face to face, and stopped at all costs.
Illegal aliens need to be returned to their homelands. One out of every
three inmates in our Federal Prison System is an illegal alien, they are not
our responsibility. America is not the world's police force, and I will not
allow it to be.
We are not at the disposal of every third world nation that needs us to bail
them out, then when the work is done, they return to their America hating
ways. No more.
Education, real education, must be returned to the people.
The protection of the American family. These are the things that haunt me,
and the reasons that I have proudly accepted my Party's nomination for the
Presidency of the United States of America. With the efforts of Commander
Schoep and the help of our supporters worldwide, these goals can be met. It
is important to remember, this is not about hate, it is not about the blame
game, it is about preservation, heritage, culture, it is indeed about the
future."
The campaign will begin full swing in May, with Holland visiting supporters
in Arizona, Florida, and Oregon. Future campaign information will be
provided on the soon to be published official website.
Website coming soon at:  <<link>>
To contact the Candidate:  user@domain.com
