Phil
Thanks for this great detail. I am thinking that probably a raw radiosonde dataset may be better (I tried this before using the LKS dataset but station density was an issue and only ended up with around 20 station pairs) - it sounds as though things have improved dramatically in that area and will look at the sources you suggest. My hope is that at least I can find hundreds/thousands of stations near to my high elevation surface ones for comparison. If not I could interpolate spatially maybe between radiosondes to my surface sites since free-air climate (not meteorology) should be relatively smooth in space. I cannot interpolate between surface stations.
I agree that reanalyses can be a can of worms (esp NCEP/NCAR)!
As for the surface I'll also look at the site you suggest and get back if I have any Q/problems. I appreciate the time you have taken to answer some of my Q!
Best wishes
Nick
Nick,
I don't want to put off, but there is an awful lot of things 
wrong with NCEP/NCAR.
They are probably OK for month-to-month variability, but if you look at some
of the figures in Simmons et al (2004) you'll see that for trends they are
practically useless before 1979.
There is just so much wrong with the sondes which together with the
introduction of satellite data in 1978/9 makes reanalyses awful.
The Simmons paper is about how much better ERA-40 is than NCEP/NCAR.
It is also telling you that you shouldn't be using NCEP/NCAR for 
trends - and ERA-40
is only OK in Europe and North America.
A group of us are hopeful of getting an EU project funded to go 
through the
Reanalysis input - surface and sonde. The aim is to put in all the 
homogenised
surface and sonde data, so giving reanalysis better data input - 
and putting back all the
data that missed the real-time cut.  I'm not sure you're aware that 
no back data have
ever got into the reanalyses. If data doesn't make the cut in real 
time, it can never get
in later. The reanalysis source input doesn't collect back data!
You'd be better off getting one of the newer sonde datasets. 
HadAT2 although developed
in 2005 is beyond it's sell-by date. Have a look at the attached 
and this web site
<<link>> 
Ra-ob core version 1.4 is the latest.
The drop off in surface data isn't the fault of GHCNv2. The 
folks in Asheville are doing all
they can to get additional datasets. Currently about 2000 sites are 
exchanged in real time.
If the sites you want are not exchanged by Met Services in real 
time we can't get access
to them except by asking each Met Service and/or waiting till the 
next volumes of the 10-year
books (for 2001-2010) get released.
CRUTEM3 has some additional station data going in for Australia 
and Canada, but apart
from this we will have nothing more than GHCNv2. We could get a 
load more from the US
quite easily, but coverage is reasonable there compared to the rest 
of the world.
GHCNv2 and ourselves have lots of historic series, but these 
aren't updatable in real
time, without continuous effort.  Lots of projects were funded in 
the US and Europe in the
1980s and 1990s to get loads of data digitized, homogenized and accessible.
It is possible to do things with daily data (SYNOPS) but these are 
only generally good enough for the good countries.
<<link>> 
This site has what is available in real time - since 2001. This 
site can be very annoying.
There is a link back to NCDC.
Cheers
Phil
Cheers
Phil
