Based on the notes you have on the script below are some thoughts on specific solutions:
Act 1
·     
Love the
idea that before the wedding we could have a scene with Drac and Mavis - maybe
on the roof and could be more like a mother/daughter pre-wedding chat. It could
be awkward/funny like the scene in the first movie where Mavis is talking to
Drac about liking Johnny.
·     
Great
father-daughter wedding moment if we add back in dancing on the ceiling.
·     
Thought for
where the idea that the hotel might not be a good place for Drac’s grandkid might
be placed:
o   We could do this in the scene with Mavis pregnant
in bed. When Drac says “Humany? With thousands of years of Dracula genes? Not
gonna happen!” Mavis could say that they have to accept the baby no matter what
it is and raise it in a place where it belongs, either at the hotel or the
human world.
·     
How we can
get back some of the fun humanizing of the hotel in a precise way:
o   During Drac and Johnny’s walk through the lobby
we can add back in the yoga sign and spinning class in the background.
o   We can get back in the restaurant scene where
monster food gets served to humans and vice versa as a beat in after Harry 3
Eyes and Wayne chasing tennis ball.
o   To make clear it’s not an update of the acts but
about replacing monsters with humans. Johnny could say they have to do more to
humanize the hotel so Dennis and Mavis will stay, but Drac doesn’t want to go
so far. “I’m not replacing monsters with humans. That’s going too far!”
·     
If we do
want to replace Cakey there was the great dialogue we had before about Batman.
·     
So that Mavis isn’t a bummer at the Wolf Pup Party, let’s
have Mavis want to come to the party and be ready to have fun and be open
(maybe she’s lightened up after Lullaby) It’ll be great to see Mavis acting
like her fun self. It’s only when Dennis gets hurt that she gets worried and says
she’s thinking about moving.
·     
Rather than have the scene with Johnny and Drac, we could
have a scene with Mavis where Drac pretends to be more to be supportive of her
trip to check out Johnny’s home town and convinces her to leave Dennis with him
for Grandpa time.  This would have Drac
manipulating her like his old self because his real plan is to get the fangs
out before she comes home.
·     
The other
jokes that are missed and we can get back in:
o   Drac spraying fresh blood on the curtains.
o   Drac said holy rabies like Mavis did.
o   The bad breath joke was funnier when he was
talking to the Suit of Armor and says seriously it's called flossing.
o   The shrunken head waking Drac up.
Act 2
·     
Agree that it’s important to set up Drac is taking Dennis
someplace specific.  We can establish
from the beginning of the trip that Camp Vamp is their ultimate destination. 
·     
If Camp Vamp is the destination (and the solution to
Drac’s problem), then we need a logical reason why the monster friends would teach
Dennis along the way. Maybe it’s Frank who suggests he and the other monsters
could take a crack at bringing out the fangs in Dennis. “Maybe if Dennis sees
us doing cool monster stuff, it’ll inspire him.” Drac gives it a shot.
·     
If we are adding so much back in to the first act, it
feels like we can cut some time here if monster stops teaching Dennis are one
montage-like sequence. Let’s combine Frank/Wayne/Murray into consecutive beats.
·     
This means we need to move Minimart (as it’s currently
separating the Wayne and Murray teaching beats). Maybe we combine San Jose
Arrival and Minimart into consecutive beats.
• Let’s look at some trims to Camp Winnepecaca as well.
·     
Back at the Hotel, maybe we can get Mavis get right to one
of the themes: “I thought you finally accepted me being with Johnny and now you
are doing it all over again with Dennis. 
Trying to control and make things your way.  You can’t this time, Dad.”
·     
Mavis should say she’s packing up and leaving then and
there and Drac begs her to let them stay for the party, it’s all set up, guests
are coming, etc. and Mavis agrees.
Act 3
·     
Here’s some specific thoughts for Act 3 that might help
streamline the action and give the emotional beats:
o   Instead
when Drac goes to Vlad and Vlad says what he needs to do to Dennis, Drac can’t
stomach it and leaves – he realizes he can’t put Dennis through this.
o   Vlad
shows up at the party and he’s  like, “I’m
here for the kid, no grandchild of mine is going to not be a vampire.”
o   Vlad flips
at what he sees (humans in the hotel, Mavis married to a human, etc.) and talks
about the shame that Dennis is. 
o   Drac stands
up to Vlad, defends his family, and talks about letting people be who they
are.  
o   Dennis
in the meantime has run away when he hears the shame part.
o   Bela
summons cronies, while Drac, Mavis, etc. go look for Dennis.
o   The
cronies and Drac’s search party (with humans from hotel) clash and, same as we
have now, Dennis comes out of hiding when his family is in danger and shows his
fangs.
o   The
cronies could try to humiliate Vlad but he finally says this shit doesn’t
matter anymore, because what matters is family.
·     
Drac apologizes somewhere in here to Mavis/Dennis for
judging Dennis. He comes clean that what it was really about that he was afraid
they were going to move away and he just wanted his family with him (this is
Drac’s underbelly from the first movie and it feels like audiences love this
family theme).
