And one of them is mine!
I encourage you to read these two letters. I think
they definitely impinge. They are much longer than
newspapers normally like to publish, which is good.
The editor must have thought it important enough to
give us more space. We actually got more words than
the one we were responding to.
<<link>>
<<link>>
Doyle Mills' letter:
There are facts and then there is the truth
Your recently published a letter from two social
workers - Ms. Gutman and Ms. Jarvis - on the subject
of TeenScreen. Curiously, it was entitled the "facts"
about the TeenScreen program.
I think the social workers should crack open a
dictionary and look up what a "fact" is. Obviously
with no investigation of their own, they accept and
spew the "facts" given to them by TeenScreen. One of
the definitions for facts is "something said to be
true or supposed to have happened," as in this
example: "The facts given by the witness are highly
questionable." Yet the public doesn't want or need
that kind of "facts" to be presented as truth. They
need real facts, as in this definition: "something
that actually exists; reality; truth."
Ms. Gutman's and Ms. Jarvis' letter is full of
assertions, none of which can be proven by evidence.
TeenScreen spawned a lawsuit in Indiana because a teen
was screened and labeled with a mental disorder
without her parents' knowledge.
TeenScreen refuses to release the identity of their
mysterious donors. Many members of TeenScreen's
executive board have connections to drug companies.
TeenScreen's biggest supporter and co-conspirator is
NAMI, which receives millions from drug companies, a
verifiable fact because NAMI is a non-profit
organization required to reveal its contributors.
TeenScreen is intimately involved in treatment, as
evidenced by the fact that TeenScreen always partners
with a local mental health provider so that identified
youth can be directed into treatment. That information
can be found on TeenScreen's own website.
Suicide IS a horrible tragedy. No one is denying that.
Yet, suicide is very, very, very rare. If you want to
see how rare, click on
<<link>> You'll see
that the suicide rate for youth in Iowa as reported by
the CDC is 2.62 per 100,000. That's a very small
number. Screening identifies 30% or higher youth as
needing further evaluation. Screening is obviously
good for finding new customers for the mental health
system but it's complete folly to pretend that its
purpose is finding those at risk and preventing
suicide.
Add to that the FACT that the FDA requires a black box
warning on antidepressants, the same ones that will be
given to some of these kids entering the mental health
system via TeenScreen. This warning states that the
drugs can CAUSE suicidal tendencies and violence in
young people. Ms. Gutman and Ms. Jarvis neglected to
mention that fact.
Everything I have stated here is verifiable, backed up
by evidence. Though this may be an editorial, I am not
stating an opinion. I am stating documented, provable
fact.
Doyle Mills
Clearwater, FL
Elizabeth Cameron's letter:
Statistics don't indicate a significant danger
I am writing in response to the letter Here are the
facts about the TeenScreen Program. This letter makes
it sound like suicide is a pervasive threat for Iowa
children...one of such grave dimensions that it
requires wholesale screening through the schools to
catch the many desperate children whose difficulties
would otherwise go unnoticed. Statistics from the
Centers for Disease Control, however, would indicate
otherwise: In 2004, 19 Iowa children between the ages
of 0 - 18 committed suicide out of a total of 724,
095. That is a percentage of .00262%, or 2.62 per
100,000 people. That is hardly an epidemic.
For the rare child who really is in trouble, though,
it seems reasonable to ask whether TeenScreen and the
recommendations that follow it will actually do him
any good. First of all, is it not unlikely that his
unhappiness will have been noticed already by somebody
- parents, teachers, minister, coaches, or friends?
Are we so unobservant that only an official suicide
questionnaire will uncover a child on the edge? I
doubt it.
Secondly, even if this were likely, does it really
justify asking leading, suggestive questions to
thousands upon thousands of other children, subjecting
them to the possibility of misdiagnosing, mislabeling,
and potentially damaging treatments? I don't think so.
And last, supposing that we screen everybody and
really do catch a child who appears to be in trouble -
then what? In the wake of this assessment - whatever
else is recommended - the follow-up is very likely to
include a referral, a diagnosis, and a prescription.
Once in the hands of a psychiatric professional,
diagnosis will be made on the basis of the Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual, which has been thoroughly
discredited. Then, prescription, and no help there.
Black box warnings have been added to various
psychiatric drugs on the basis that they can actually
increase the likelihood of suicide.
So what do we do? We get this TeenScreen program out
of the schools, and help children without hurting
them. Caring parents and teachers and ministers and
friends can do far more to bring children up to an
enthusiasm for life than all the assessments and
diagnoses and prescriptions in Christendom.
Elizabeth Neal Cameron 
