This is a good one - and easy.
1. Read the article below.
2. Write a letter to the editor and send it to
letters@news-jrnl.com
Our main argument should not be against the drugs, but
FOR informed parental consent.  Parents have a right
to know.  People who profit one way or another from
drugging kids will always argue against the facts
being told.  But it is unbiased scientists at the FDA
who are warning that these drugs can CAUSE suicides. 
Parents are bombarded with millions of dollars of
pharmaceutical company advertising about the supposed
benefits of the drugs.  They have a right to know both
sides of the story so they can make a responsible
decision for their child.  Etc. 
Again you are writing IN FAVOR of the bill in
question.
The only exception is that IF your last name begins
with C, J, R, or T, I want you to throw in something
about Mr. Smith, who admits that his daughter commited
suicide while on anti-depressants but is too blind to
see that they contributed to it. Don't be too hard on
him but at least point out that the drugs are known to
cause suicide and he should open his eyes to reality
or something like that.
3. And report compliance by email.
Thank you!
Doyle
LINK:
<<link>>
032006.htm
ARTICLE TEXT:
March 20, 2006
Are kids being overmedicated?
Bill calls for schools to inform parents before
evaluating pupils
By DEBORAH CIRCELLI
Staff Writer
DAYTONA BEACH -- A 40-year-old Daytona Beach mom was
skeptical when therapists wanted to put two of her
daughters on medication for behavioral and anxiety
problems.
But for the 11-year-old with bipolar disorder, and the
9-year-old dealing with depression and anxiety, the
single mother now says medication and counseling have
turned their lives around.
The mother, who did not want her name used, spoke last
week from Halifax Behavioral Services where her two
daughters and their 15-year-old sister are in therapy.
The oldest is not on medication.
"I think in certain cases (medication) is a very good
thing, but as a parent you have to really do research
and work with the professional to try everything and
leave medication as a last resort," she said.
Legislation being proposed this session is sparking a
debate about the use of antidepressants and other
psychotropic drugs in children and possible side
effects such as thoughts of suicide.
Scientologists, including some celebrities such as
Kirstie Alley and Kelly Preston, and parent and
juvenile groups are pushing for schools to disclose
information to parents prior to children being
evaluated for emotional or behavioral problems or
learning disabilities.
Parents would have to sign a form that outlines
potential consequences of an evaluation. Consequences
could include their child being diagnosed with a
mental disorder and being prescribed psychiatric
medication such as antidepressants.
Opponents say the five-page form will scare parents
from seeking treatment for their child while
supporters say the bill simply arms parents with the
knowledge they need to make an informed decision.
That knowledge also includes telling parents that the
Food and Drug Administration ordered "black box"
labels that warn of the suicide risk of antidepressant
medication for children.
"It's extremely important for parents to know the
facts," said David Figueroa, a Scientologist and
president of the Florida chapter of the Citizens
Commission on Human Rights, founded by the Church of
Scientology. "They are not told of the dangers of the
drugs and they are not told that there is no science
and medicine behind the diagnosis."
Figueroa said children are being "fraudulently labeled
with these made-up illnesses" such as Attention
Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and are stuck
with these labels for life. He said the vast majority
of 8 million U.S. children are on medications for such
psychiatric labels.
"Parents should have all the proper information when
it comes to putting their kids on these dangerous
psychotropic drugs," said Rep. Gus Barreiro, R-Miami
Beach, sponsor of the bill. "The over-prescription is
just out of hand."
But psychiatric and school psychology groups say the
bill will hurt children. Dr. John Bailey, president of
the Florida Psychiatric Society, said it is
"stigmatizing, frightening and inaccurate."
"It could be very confusing for the parents," said
Volusia County Schools Deputy Superintendent Tim Huth,
adding parents are already involved in discussions
with the teacher and sign paperwork before their child
is evaluated.
Palm Coast resident Terry Smith, former chair of the
Florida Suicide Prevention Coalition, who is against
the legislation, said there is a risk to
antidepressants just like there are risks to any other
medications. But, he said, there's more of a risk if a
child goes untreated.
"I don't think anybody is trying to hide anything from
parents. On the other hand, you would hate to have
parents make decisions based on scare tactics," he
said.
Smith will be in Tallahassee on Tuesday for suicide
prevention day at the Capitol, which will include
encouraging support for bills establishing a Statewide
Office for Suicide Prevention.
Smith's daughter, Stephanie, took her life five years
ago. Smith said she was taking antidepressants, but
added her death was not caused by the medicine. He
said she was dealing with stressful issues in her
life.
Shirley Holland, manager for Halifax Behavioral
Services, which treats about 3,000 children a year ,
said the legislation "discredits psychiatry" and
leaves out the benefits of treatment.
She said they have a "conservative group" of
physicians when it comes to medicating children. Their
first preference, whenever possible, is therapy, she
said.
"(This bill) creates roadblocks and puts us back 15
years," Holland said.
But Patty Weathers, founder of Ablechild Parents for
Label and Drug Free Education, a national group based
in New York, said too many parents are being coerced
by school systems into putting their children on
medication without understanding the risks.
When her son was 9, Weathers said she was coerced and
her son went through periods of violence, insomnia and
hallucinations after being put on several medications
for ADHD. He has since been fine without the medicine,
she said.
"Parents are not being told the truth and are not told
the drugs carry serious health risks," Weathers said.
deborah.circelli @news-jrnl.com
