A very remarkable attack — And CHINA.
"Anthem Inc., the country’s second-biggest health insurer, said hackers broke into a database containing personal information for about 80 million of its customers and employees in what is likely to be the largest data breach disclosed by a health-care company.""Investigators are still determining the extent of the incursion, which was discovered last week, and Anthem said it is likely that “tens of millions” of records were stolen. The health insurer said the breach exposed names, birthdays, addresses and Social Security numbers but doesn’t appear to involve medical information or financial details such as credit-card or bank-account numbers, nor are there signs the data are being sold on the black market.” [ WELL, it “appears” so, aka, they hope so ][…]
"He said the Anthem attack was “sophisticated” and used techniques that appeared to have been customized, rather than broadly available tools, and were “very advanced.” Investigators haven’t yet concluded who was behind the Anthem breach. Community Health Systems, for one, said it believed its incursion originated in China. “
“On Thursday, investigators began to focus on links to a group in China. Although the investigation remains in its early stages, the Anthem hack relied on malware and tools that have been used almost exclusively by Chinese cyberspies, investigators said."
From the WSJ, also available at <<link>>  (+), FYI,David
Health Insurer Anthem Didn’t Encrypt Data in Theft
Companies Aren’t Required by Law to Scramble Records, and Often Don’t 
The database of Indianapolis-based
health insurer Anthem, which containing personal information for about 
80 million customers and employees, has been hacked. WSJ's Stefanie 
Ilgenfritz reports. Photo: AP
By Danny Yadron and Melinda Beck
Updated Feb. 5, 2015 7:26 p.m. ET
Anthem
Inc.
stored the Social Security numbers of 80 million customers 
without encrypting them, the result of what a person familiar with the 
matter described as a difficult balancing act between protecting the 
information and making it useful. Scrambling the data, which 
included addresses and phone numbers, could have made it less valuable 
to hackers or harder to access in bulk. It also would have made it 
harder for Anthem employees to track health care trends or share data 
with states and health providers, that person said.The risks 
became clear last week, when Anthem discovered that hackers had broken 
into the database and made off with information on tens of millions of 
consumers, likely making it the largest computer breach disclosed by a 
health-care company. Because the data wasn’t encrypted, it would
be easily readable by hackers. The company believes a hacker group used
a stolen employee password to access the database. That storage
decision has made the country’s second-largest health insurer the 
latest poster child for a continuing debate in executive suites: Is 
turning a corporate network into an electronic Fort Knox worth the 
potential cost? 
Companies can employ random pass codes, limit access from 
outside the office or use complex math to scramble data. But those 
things slow companies down, sometimes to a degree they find 
unacceptable. There is no evidence yet that identity thieves are
using the data stolen from Anthem, it said. On Thursday, investigators 
began to focus on links to a group in China. Although the investigation 
remains in its early stages, the Anthem hack relied on malware and tools
that have been used almost exclusively by Chinese cyberspies, 
investigators said. “Chinese laws prohibit cyber crimes of all 
forms,” Chinese Embassy spokesman Zhu Haiquan said. “Unfounded 
hypothesis and jumping to conclusions is irresponsible and will be 
counterproductive to address these issues.”Employers and 
government agencies “require us to maintain a member’s Social Security 
number in our systems so that their systems can uniquely identify their 
members,” Anthem spokeswoman 
Kristin Binns
said. Ms. Binns said Anthem encrypts personal data when it moves 
in or out of its database but not when it is stored, which is common in 
the industry.“We use other measures, including elevated user 
credentials, to limit access to the data when it is residing in a 
database,” she said.Anthem said it is likely that ‘tens of millions’ of records were stolen. 
Photo: 
Darron Cummings/Associated Press“We join you in your concern and frustration,” Anthem Chief 
Executive 
Joseph Swedish
said in a letter posted on the company’s website. “I assure you 
that we are working around the clock to do everything we can to further 
secure your data.” He didn’t provide details. 
Adam Greene,
a privacy attorney with the law firm Davis Wright Tremaine LLP 
and former official in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
said encryption isn’t a cure-all for data breaches. “At some 
point, that information is going to be used in an unencrypted state and 
if a hacker has access to it at that point, the information could be 
exposed,” Mr. Greene said. Last month, New Jersey Gov. 
Chris Christie
signed a law requiring health insurers operating in the state to 
encrypt client information, including Social Security numbers, driver’s 
license numbers, addresses and identifiable health information. The law 
was prompted in part by a breach of 840,000 individuals’ information 
from Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey in 2013, following the
theft of two laptops containing unencrypted data.Anthem doesn’t sell plans in New Jersey. Health
insurers don’t always encrypt members’ data, and aren’t required by the
federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act to encrypt 
data. Under HIPAA, doctors, hospitals, health plans and others 
must “address” encryption in their operations, but don’t have to 
scramble data if they determine doing so would impose an unreasonable 
burden, the likelihood of disclosure is low and they have implemented 
alternative security measures.Mr. Greene, the privacy attorney, said repeated breaches show that the risk of disclosure isn’t low. Health
and Human Services’ Office for Civil Rights, which enforces HIPAA, is 
urging providers and insurers to encrypt as much data as possible. The 
office didn’t respond to a request for comment on Thursday. The 
office has imposed penalties or reached settlements in 24 data-breach 
cases in recent years, including two in April 2014 involving lack of 
encryption. Concentra Health Services unit of 
Humana
Inc.
agreed to pay $1.7 million after an unencrypted laptop was stolen
from one of its facilities. The same month, QCA Health Plan Inc. of 
Arkansas agreed to pay $250,000 to settle potential HIPAA violations 
after an unencrypted laptop containing information on 148 individuals 
was stolen.HHS’s Office for Civil Rights said at the time: “Our 
message to these organizations is simple: encryption is your best 
defense against these incidents.” Write to Danny Yadron at user@domain.com and Melinda Beck at user@domain.com 
