Malcolm
sorry , I should have cc'd this message sent to my coauthors some time ago(it pre-dates the
message to you) , but I was sort of hoping this issue would recede . It would be useful to
chat about this and other stuff if you are able to phone (afternoon my time preferably).
Cheers
Keith
Date: Thu, 16 Nov 2006 11:57:09 +0000
To: Martin Juckes <m.n.juckes@rl.ac.uk>, "Myles Allen" <allen@atm.ox.ac.uk>
From: Keith Briffa <k.briffa@uea.ac.uk>
Subject: Re: Mitrie: Bristlecones
Cc: anders@misu.su.se, Eduardo.Zorita@gkss.de, user@domain.com, esper@wsl.ch,
weber@knmi.nl, t.osborn@uea.ac.uk
Martin and all,
I know Franco very well - but he has not worked extensively with the Bristlecones. I
still believe that it  would be wise to involve Malcolm Hughes in this discussion -
though I recognise the point of view that says we might like to appear (and be)
independent of the original Mann, Bradley and Hughes team to avoid the appearance of
collusion. In my opinion (as someone how has worked with the Bristlecone data hardly at
all!) there are undoubtedly problems in their use that go beyond the strip bark problem
(that I will come back to later).
The main one is an ambiguity in the nature and consistency of their sensitivity to
temperature variations. It was widely believed some 2-3 decades ago, that high-elevation
trees were PREDOMINANTLY responding to temperature and low elevation ones  to available
water supply (not always related in a simple way to measured precipitation) . However,
response functions ( ie sets of regression coefficients on monthly mean temperature and
precipitation data derived using principal components regression applied to the
tree-ring data) have always shown quite weak and temporally unstable associations
between chronology and climate variations (for the high-elevations trees at least). The
trouble is that these results are dominated by inter-annual (ie high-frequency)
variations and apparent instability in the relationships is exacerbated by the shortness
of the instrumental records that restrict analyses to short periods, and the large
separation of the climate station records from the sites of the trees. Limited
comparisons between tree-ring density data (which seem to display less ambiguos
responses) imply that there is a reasonable decadal time scale association and so
indicate a real temperature signal , on this time scale .The bottom line though is that
these trees likely represent a mixed temperature and moisture-supply response that might
vary on longer timescales.
The discussion is further complicated by the fact that the first PC of "Western US"
trees used in the Mann et al. analyses is derived from a mixture of species (not just
Bristlecones ) and they are quite varied in their characteristics , time span, and
effective variance spectra . Many show low interannual variance and a long-term
declining trend , up until about 1850 , when the Bristlecones (and others) show the
remarkable increasing trend up until the end of the record. The earlier negative trend
could be (partly or more significantly) a consequence of the LACK of detrending to allow
for age effects in the measurements (ie standardisation) - the very early sections of
relative high growth were removed in their analysis, but no explicit standardistion of
the data was made to account for remaining slow width changes resulting from tree
aging.  This is also related to the "strip bark" problem , as these types of trees will
have unpredictable trends as a consequence of aging  and depending on the precise nature
of each tree's structure .
Another serious issue to be considered relates to the fact that the PC1 time series in
the Mann et al. analysis was  adjusted to reduce the positive slope in the last 150
years (on the assumption - following an earlier paper by Lamarche et al. - that this
incressing growth was evidence of carbon dioxide fertilization) , by differencing the
data from another record produced by other workers in  northern Alaska and Canada
(which  incidentally was standardised in a totally different way). This last adjustment
obviously will have a large influence on the quantification of the link between these
Western US trees and N.Hemisphere temperatures. At this point , it is fair to say that
this adjustment was arbitrary and the link between Bristlecone pine growth and CO2 is ,
at the very least, arguable. Note that at least one author (Lisa Gaumlich) has stated
that the recent growth of these trees could be temperature driven and not evidence of
CO2 fertilisation.
The point of this message is to show that that this issue is complex , and I still
believe the "Western US" series and its interpretation in terms of Hemispheric mean
temperature is perhaps a "Pandora's box" that we might open at our peril!
What does Jan say about this - he is very acquainted with these issues?
cheers
Keith
