By Ben White | 04/27/2016 08:00 AM EDT
PRIMARY WRAP: CLINTON/TRUMP WIN BIG - As expected, Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump rolled to big wins in the northeastern primaries on Tuesday night. Trump went five for five and added at least 105 delegates, bringing him to 950 of the 1,237 he needs. Clinton went four for five, taking Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware and Connecticut while Bernie Sanders won only Rhode Island. Clinton now has 2,141 of the 2,383 delegates she needs. 
The Democratic race is over (and has been for a while). Sanders cannot catch Clinton in bound delegates and will not be able to flip super delegates. He acknowledged as much in his statement Tuesday night, pledging to solider on to the convention to have an influence on the party platform rather than competing for the nomination. 
The GOP race is close to over as well though Trump could still fall short of 1,237 if he loses Indiana to Cruz next week. And Republicans hoping to win in November must have cringed hard at Trump's victory remarks Tuesday night when he claimed that if Clinton "were a man" she would only get 5 percent of the vote. 
He also said: "I think the only card she that she has is the women's card. She's got nothing else going for her." ... This is, of course, both wildly sexist and quite insane. Another Clinton who IS a man did pretty well in a pair of presidential races. Plus Clinton is a former senator and Secretary of State. She has a couple credentials other than "woman." 
THE HORROR FOR THE GOP - According to Gallup, Trump currently has a 70 percent unfavorable rating among women, who made up 53 percent of a 2012 electorate that handed President Barack Obama an easy reelection victory. Romney beat Obama among men by 7 percent but lost women by 11 percent. Trump could double that gender gap quite easily. The 2012 electorate was also 28 percent non-white. Trump would need an unprecedented number of white male voters (possibly 70 percent of them <<link>> to win in November. 
TOP TWEET - Romney 2012 strategist Stuart Stevens (@stuartpstevens) in response to MM's Tweet about the 2012 gender gap: "Romney won white women by 14. Trump is losing them by 8. Then move on to real challenge: non-white females." 
TRUMP NEARS VOTE RECORD - POLITICO's Kyle Cheney: "With his five blowout wins Tuesday night, Donald Trump has passed Mitt Romney's popular vote total from four years ago and is on a trajectory that could land him more Republican votes than any presidential candidate in modern history - by a lot. Trump surged to 9.86 million votes ... That's about 50,000 votes more than Romney earned in the entire 2012 primary season and 40,000 less than John McCain earned in 2008" 
SANDERS STATEMENT - "The people in every state in this country should have the right to determine who they want as president and what the agenda of the Democratic Party should be. That's why we are in this race until the last vote is cast. 
"That is why this campaign is going to the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia with as many delegates as possible to fight for a progressive party platform that calls for a $15 an hour minimum wage, an end to our disastrous trade policies, a Medicare-for-all health care system, breaking up Wall Street financial institutions, ending fracking in our country, making public colleges and universities tuition free and passing a carbon tax so we can effectively address the planetary crisis of climate change." 
QUOTE OF THE DAY - MM sat down with a top banking industry executive on Tuesday and the topic of Elizabeth Warren as Clinton's VP came up. The response: "If Warren gets it every bank CEO in this country would poop their pants." 
FED PREP: NO HIKE TODAY - Pantheon's Ian Shepherdson: "A rate hike today would be a surprise of monumental proportions, and the Yellen Fed is not in that business. What matters to markets, then, is the language the Fed uses to describe the soft-looking recent domestic economic data, the upturn in inflation, and, critically, policymakers' views of the extent of global risks. 
"The bottom line, we think, is that the statement likely won't offer much hope of action in June, though we doubt it will bluntly state the truth, which is that the U.S. policy establishment is very scared indeed of the risk of Brexit. ... Dr. Yellen will feel no compulsion to offer succour to the hawks." 
COUNTER PROGRAMMING TRUMP - House Speaker Paul Ryan in his continuing effort to present an alternative vision for voters holds a "town hall with millennials" at the Georgetown Institute of Politics and Public Service" and will appear on CNN's New Day at 8:30 a.m. and MSNBC's Morning Joe at 8:42 a.m. 
COMING NEXT MONTH: BIG MM FED EVENT - Please join me in DC on May 17th for a lunch briefing with Dennis Lockhart, President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and John C. Williams, President and CEO, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco" <<link>>
GOOD WEDNESDAY MORNING - Caps-Pens starts Thursday night! Still looking for a good friendly wager with a Pens fan. Email me on user@domain.com and follow me on Twitter @morningmoneyben. 
THIS MORNING ON POLITICO PRO FINANCIAL SERVICES - Patrick Temple-West on stock-exchange opposition to a possible change in trading fees - and to get Morning Money every day before 6 a.m. - please contact Pro Services at (703) 341-4600 user@domain.com
DRIVING THE DAY - Trump gives a foreign policy speech in DC (he might use a classy, hugely presidential teleprompter!) ... House Financial Services subcommittee has a hearing at 10:00 a.m. on "How Can the U.S. Make Development Banks More Accountable?" ... Senate Budget Committee has a hearing at 10:30 a.m. on "Fixing the Budget Process: Better Budgets, Better Results" ... FOMC announcement at 2:00 p.m. expected to include no change in rates and one dissent 
WHCD EVENT - Join POLITICO's Chief White House Correspondent Mike Allen as he takes Playbook live for a conversation with Funny or Die D.C.'s head writer/producer and President Obama's former speechwriter David Litt, Host of "Billy on the Street" and from Hulu's "Difficult People," Billy Eichner and President of Production of Funny or Die, Mike Farah. Friday, April 29 - Doors at 11:30 a.m - The Newseum. RSVP: <<link>> 
TRUMP TRAIN ROLLS ON - POLITICO's Shane Goldmacher: "Donald Trump declared himself the 'presumptive nominee' ... after he won five Northeastern states in a landslide. 'I consider myself the presumptive nominee, absolutely,' the real estate mogul said in a speech at Trump Tower in New York ... 
"'As far as I am concerned, it's over,' he declared. ... He cast Ted Cruz and John Kasich as spoilers and sore losers preventing him from focusing on taking on ... Clinton." <<link>>
CLINTON CRUSHES BERNIE'S HOPES - POLITICO's Patrick Reis: "Clinton's Tuesday night appearance demonstrated that her pivot to the general election is fully underway. She took a conciliatory tone toward Sanders and appealed for party unity in her victory address. 'There's much more that unites us than divides us,' 
Clinton said, before reciting a list of policy priorities she and Sanders share. ... She also directly went after Donald Trump, calling him a divisive candidate and ripping his rhetoric and policies." <<link>>
** A message from Allied Progress: #DebtTrapDebbie Wasserman Schultz isn't the only Member of Congress trying to sabotage President Obama's hard work to rein in predatory payday lenders through the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Vote now and help Allied Progress decide who to expose next. CAST YOUR VOTE TODAY: <<link>> **
ALL ABOUT INDIANA - WP's Dan Balz: "After his clean sweep of five primaries Tuesday, the options for denying ... Trump the Republican presidential nomination continue to dwindle rapidly - so swiftly, in fact, that next week's primary in Indiana now appears to be a make-or-break event for the stop-Trump forces and especially ... Cruz ... Based on raw arithmetic, it's not unreasonable for Cruz, Kasich and others in the party who don't want Trump as their nominee to express hope-to-confidence that he can be stopped.
"Under the many possible projected outcomes in the remaining 10 states, Trump will either end up just over that magic number or somewhat short of it. ... But there is more at work than just counting numbers. When Trump broke the 60 percent barrier in the popular vote in New York, it forced many Republicans to take notice and begin to acknowledge, if grudgingly, that he seemed more likely than before to prevail. That feeling could gather force on the basis of his powerful showing Tuesday night" <<link>>
GOOD NIGHT FOR DEM ESTABLISHMENT - POLITICO's Kevin Robillard: "The Democratic establishment won two major Senate victories Tuesday as Rep. Chris Van Hollen and former White House aide Katie McGinty won heavily contested primaries in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Van Hollen romped over fellow Rep. Donna Edwards in Maryland, taking 52 percent to 41 percent, while McGinty made a comeback against the party's 2010 nominee in Pennsylvania, Joe Sestak, winning 42 percent to 30 percent." <<link>> 
PIMCO ON PUERTO RICO - Pimco's David Hammer, Sean McCarthy and Libby Cantrill: "Diverse interests have emerged seeking to derail a bill aimed at a satisfactory resolution to Puerto Rico's debt crisis. ... PIMCO portfolios do not hold any exposure to bonds from the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico or its various governmental entities ... In our view, PROMESA represents a responsible framework for managing the unavoidable restructuring of Puerto Rico's debt and other liabilities. 
"We expect no contagion to the broader municipal market from PROMESA. More specifically, PROMESA will not trigger higher borrowing costs for states or municipalities. Some are worried the federal government might take over a state's finances in a similar manner; yet there are no convincing arguments because the Constitution protects the sovereignty of the states" <<link>>
McCARTHY STILL HOPEFUL ON PR VOTE - POLITICO's Rachael Bade: "House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy on Tuesday said Congress was likely to blow past a looming deadline for Puerto Rico to pay its creditors but was hopeful the House could pass a rescue package before the Caribbean island's larger multi-billion-dollar July payment is due. McCarthy said he was hopeful the House will act before a $2 billion debt payment is due on July 1 - what many view as the drop-dead endpoint for saving the Caribbean island from a taxpayer bailout. 
"Absent congressional action, Puerto Rico is expected to default on a $422 million debt payment on May 1. ... House leaders are struggling to rally conservatives behind legislation to restructure Puerto Rico's debt. Many conservatives fear the proposal could be labeled a bailout. GOP leadership huddled with Republicans more than a week ago to try and dispel that notion, making the case that if Congress fails to act, a bailout is even more likely." 
CITI'S CORBAT ON BANK BASHING - Citigroup's Michael Corbat at the bank's annual meeting on Tuesday: "We're proud of what we do for the citizens and communities of this city and state over the course of more than a century ... ... I felt obliged to reiterate that commitment because in the heat of an election year, sometimes the facts get lost in the discourse. 
"So on behalf of my nearly 70,000 colleagues who live and work in the United States - the vast majority of whom don't actually work on Wall Street - I'm here to say that what we do is worth doing. ... And it's not just worth doing because it's personally and professionally rewarding. It's worth doing because banking is the essential lifeblood of economic and social progress." <<link>> 
Public Citizen's Bart Naylor on the failure of his resolution at Citi's meeting to study a breakup and make senior managers pay penalties from deferred pay: "Hey, I helped developed the resolution to split chair/CEO. That's how BoA shed Ken Lewis. Half of Corbat's remarks addressed the essence of our proposal. I clearly lost the vote, but we are not losing the policy goal. " 
COMCAST EYES DREAMWORKS - WSJ's Ben Fritz, Dana Mattioli and Erich Schwartzel: "Comcast Corp. is in talks to buy DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. for more than $3 billion ... in a deal that could make the cable giant a rival to Walt Disney Co. in the lucrative family-entertainment business. Comcast's Universal Pictures studio has enjoyed success in recent years with its animated 'Despicable Me' and 'Minions' movies but is still a relatively small player.
"But its parent company has been moving aggressively to mimic Disney by using its animation properties to build out its consumer products and theme parks businesses, a strategy that could be accelerated by the addition of DreamWorks, which makes the 'Shrek,' 'Kung Fu Panda,' and 'Madagascar' movies, among others. ... The tentative purchase price represents a healthy premium over DreamWorks' current $2.3 billion market value. Comcast is set to report its financial results on Wednesday." <<link>>
APPLE DISAPPOINTS - NYT's Vindu Goel: "From the iPod to the iPhone to the iPad, Apple created more than a decade's worth of new gadgets to fuel its historic growth. But the technology company's dazzling 13-year run of quarterly revenue growth ended on Tuesday - a casualty of Apple's already immense size, weakness in key global markets like China and the lack of another hot product to pry open the wallets of customers. Apple ... said ... that revenue for its second fiscal quarter ... declined 13 percent to $50.6 billion as sales of its flagship product, the iPhone, fell, with little else to take its place.
"Nearly half of the smartphones sold in the United States are iPhones, and Apple may be reaching the saturation point among potential customers in other developed countries. Rival smartphone makers using Google's Android operating system continue to challenge the company with powerful, less expensive devices. Over all, Apple sold 16 percent fewer iPhones in the quarter compared with the same quarter last year." <<link>>
TWITTER DOES TOO - FT Hannah Kuchler in San Francisco: "Shares in Twitter dropped more than 13 per cent in after-hours trading as the company missed expectations on revenue, as brand marketers were slower to increase spending on the platform. The San Francisco based company also issued a disappointing outlook for revenue in the second quarter, below the consensus forecast. Sluggish user growth, which has dogged the company, continued in the last quarter.
"Twitter's revenue rose 36 per cent year-on-year to $595m but was lower than the consensus forecast for $608m. Excluding currency fluctuations, it would have risen 39 per cent. The messaging platform, famous for its 140-character tweets, indicated that investors should expect revenue of between $590m to $610m in the second quarter, below the analysts consensus forecast of $678m." <<link>>
CRUDE HITS HIGHS FOR THE YEAR - Reuters: "Crude oil prices hit 2016 highs on Tuesday on the back of a rally in the gasoline market and after an industry group reported a surprise draw in U.S. crude stockpiles. Brent and U.S. crude's West Texas Intermediate (WTI) futures finished regular trading about 3 percent higher, riding on the coattails of a gasoline rally that hit August highs after a series of refinery hikes.
"In post-settlement trade, both benchmarks rose more than 4 percent after the American Petroleum Institute reported a drawdown of nearly 1.1 million barrels in U.S. crude inventories last week versus a 2.4 million-barrel build expected by analysts in a Reuters poll." <<link>>
JACK MA: ASIA'S RICHEST MAN - Bloomberg: "Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman Jack Ma overtook Dalian Wanda Group Co.'s Wang Jianlin as Asia's richest man after the e-commerce giant's financial affiliate raised a record amount in its latest round of fundraising. Ma added $4.3 billion to his fortune on Tuesday after his Ant Financial's latest deal, expanding his wealth to $33.3 billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. That puts him ahead of Wang's $32.7 billion and Hong Kong tycoon Li Ka-shing's $29.5 billion." <<link>>
ALSO FOR YOUR RADAR - 
COALITION PUSHES CFPB ON PAYDAY LENDERS - POLITICO's Jon Prior: "A coalition of consumer advocates, small banks, and credit unions is asking the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to give payday lenders no legal safe harbor in its upcoming proposal to curb abuses in the small-dollar loan market. The Coalition of Safe Loan Alternatives sent a letter to CFPB Director Richard Cordray today asking for 'a strong ability-to-repay standard that applies to all loans without loopholes or safe harbors that put consumers at risk from unaffordable debt.'" 
INSURERS HIT THE HILL - Via the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America (PCI) "Close to 100 home, auto, and business insurance CEOs and senior executives are on the Hill today fighting to protect state-based insurance and prevent federal intrusion. PCI will also be encouraging support for the Transparent Insurance Standards Act of 2016 and International Insurance Capital Standards Accountability Act of 2015" 
NAFCU ON DATA STANDARDS - NAFCU sent a letter to the Hill on Tuesday on the "Need for Strong National Data Security Standards in H.R. 2205"<<link>>
** A message from Allied Progress: #DebtTrapDebbie Wasserman Schultz isn't the only Member of Congress trying to sabotage President Obama's hard work to rein in predatory payday lenders through the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). Vote now and help Allied Progress decide who to expose next. Who will it be? Rep. Corrine Brown - Rep. Kathy Castor - Rep. Lois Frankel - Rep. Alcee Hastings - Rep. Patrick Murphy - Rep. Bill Posey - Rep. Dennis Ross? CAST YOUR VOTE TODAY: <<link>> **
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
