05/23/2016 08:32 AM EDT
By Rachael Bade (user@domain.com or @RachaelMBade) 
OFF MESSAGE: "Ryan: Trump could win, but I'm not 'betting' on it." Glenn Thrush sits down with Paul Ryan for his all-things-2016 podcast: "Paul Ryan loves the word 'unity,' but his definition of that term differs sharply from Donald Trump's vision of a smiling speaker at his side, mouth shut and domesticated - just like Chris Christie. Ryan, who made peace with Trump earlier this month yet remains wait-and-see on the question of whether to endorse the presumptive GOP nominee, sees his 2016 job as ensuring that the party doesn't become a Cult of Trump -- he wants to replace it with ideas."
"The sooner Trump gets it, the quicker he'll jump on the unity bus, a relaxed but adamant Ryan suggested during a 45-minute interview last week for POLITICO's 'Off Message' podcast. 'When people go to the polls in November, they are not just picking a person ... they're also picking a path,' said Ryan, who spoke repeatedly of unity with the frontrunner - while refusing to bet on a Trump victory this fall. 'I think this is a 'we,' not just one person,' he added. 'I very much believe in a type and style of politics that may not be in vogue today but, I still think, nevertheless, is the right kind of politics.'" Read it, and listen: <<link>> 
PAUL RYAN'S 'REGULAR ORDER' PANDORA'S BOX. How bad does Speaker Ryan really want regular order? We're about to find out. The House is about to dive deep into appropriations season, traditionally run under an open amendment process. Democrats are salivating at the change to put conservatives on record on sensitive social issues that can make them look bad. They already are, as we saw with last week's LGBT amendment blowing up on the House floor, forcing Republicans to run a last-minute whip operation to switch a handful of GOP votes and defeat the measure. Now, three of those Republican vote-switchers, who are facing tough reelections this fall, are already getting blowback in their home
districts. 
It's a reminder just how risky "regular order" can be. On the one hand, empowering committees and allowing House votes on even controversial amendments affords lawmakers more independence and leeway to advance their own ideas, promoting good will. But it also means tough votes that can embarrass the party or trip-up lawmakers trying to survive re-elections in November. My story: <<link>> 
GROGGY MONDAY. This is Huddle, where we're gulping down Folgers, revving up for four more days before Memorial Day recess (and, for us, personally, our wedding and a two-week honeymoon in Italy. Boom, baby! Woot, woot!) I'm here in the meantime counting the days, so hit me up: user@domain.com, or tweet me here @RachaelMBade 
TODAY IN CONGRESS. House returns for 6:30 p.m. votes. Senate votes at 5:30 p.m.
AROUND THE HILL. Rep. Pete Sessions and Sen. Bill Cassidy at 11:30 hold a presser on marketplace healthcare plans. 
** A message from Wine & Spirits Wholesalers of America: Raise a glass to America's family-owned wine and spirits wholesalers-the key link in the U.S. hospitality industry, delivering to neighborhood bars, restaurants, shops and markets the largest variety and selection available anywhere in the world. Serving retailers, representing winemakers and distillers, wholesalers are brand builders and local marketing experts. <<link>> **
WARNING SHOTS FOR LEADERSHIP: "Mosquitoes With Zika Virus Could Hit U.S. in Next Month," Damian Paletta for the W.S.J.: "Mosquitoes carrying the dangerous Zika virus are expected to begin infecting Americans within the U.S. in the next 'month or so,' the government's top infectious disease expert said Sunday, as officials race to prevent a widespread outbreak of the virus that is believed linked to birth defects. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said on ABC that more than 500 Americans already have the Zika virus... all those cases are travel-related... But the landscape will change soon, Dr. Fauci said, as infected mosquitoes enter the
U.S. mainland."
"The two primary species of mosquito believed likely to carry Zika in the U.S. are estimated to have a wide reach. Experts believe one will blanket the southern U.S. and reach as far north as San Francisco and New York City. Another species could spread widely along the East Coast and into New England." <<link>> 
PRESSURE'S ON. Both chambers have passed their own Zika bills, but they've got a bunch of differences to reconcile, and the path forward is uncertain. The House's $622 million package is paid for at conservatives' request. The Senate's $1.1 billion? Not so much... Numerous House Republicans, however, have told your Huddle author they're concerned about being labeled the 'bad guy' for not providing enough money - particularly should the virus start to spread in the U.S. at greater rates. So the marker for the House already seems to be moving toward the Senate. It's unclear how the far-right will react, though, if the compromise isn't paid for.
Meanwhile... "Obama Chides Congress Over Zika Funding," per Carl Hulsemay at the N.Y. Times: "The House and Senate are gearing up for a push before a Memorial Day break that President Obama said Congress should not take unless it got some very specific business done. Mr. Obama chided lawmakers last week, saying they should not leave town at the end of this week unless they reconcile their differences over a Zika prevention funding bill and send him public health legislation he is willing to sign." <<link>> 
SIDE-SHOW: GOP DIVIDED ON WOMEN IN THE DRAFT. House leadership at the urging of Armed Services Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-Texas) last week dodged this issue at the last minute in the Rules Committee, stripping from the National Defense Authorization Act language about having women sign up for the draft because of "budgetary reason." Clever. But Hill Republicans like Thornberry who hate this issue (and were ticked that Rep. Duncan Hunter tucked it into NDAA via 'gotcha' amendment during the panel markup) aren't up for air on this debate yet. The Hill's Jordain Carney notes that the Senate is taking up this question in its own NDAA draft - and supporters have one big "R" behind their pitch:
Mitch. 
"The Senate Armed Services Committee has already included a requirement to open the draft to women in its version of the [NDAA], a move that sparked outrage from conservatives... [S]upporters got an unexpected boost as they fight to keep the language in the bill. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said he supports the change, while noting he doesn't expect the United States to return to the draft. 'Given where we are today, with women in the military performing virtually all kinds of functions, I personally think it would be appropriate for them to register just like men do,' the Kentucky Republican told reporters during a weekly press conference....GOP Sens. Ted Cruz (Texas) and Mike
Lee (Utah) both say they voted against the Armed Services committee's defense bill, in part, because of the requirement that women sign up." <<link>> 
SANDERS BACKS DSW'S PRIMARY OPPONENT. This just got very personal. Washington Post's David Weigel: "Democratic presidential hopeful Sen. Bernie Sanders on Saturday announced his support for Tim Canova, the former Capitol Hill staffer challenging Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, in the primary for her House seat. 'Clearly, I favor her opponent,' Sanders told CNN's Jake Tapper in an interview... on Sunday's 'State of the Union"' broadcast. 'His views are much closer to mine than as to Wasserman Schultz's. Let me also say this, in all due respect to the current chairperson: If [I am] elected president, she would not be re-appointed
chairwoman of the DNC.'" <<link>> 
..."Steps up feud with Democratic establishment," Reuters' John Whitesides: "Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders cranked up his fight with party leaders... In a series of television interviews, Sanders remained defiant despite what he acknowledged was an uphill fight to overtake front-runner Clinton.... 'Frankly, what the Democratic Party is about is running around to rich people's homes and raising obscene sums of money from wealthy people. What we need to do is to say to working-class people - we are on your side,' he said. The defiant tone by Sanders, a U.S. senator from Vermont, has worried some Democrats anxious to see Clinton begin to unify the party and turn her
attention to an election showdown with Trump." <<link>> 
FRIDAY'S TRIVIA WINNER: Former Finance Committee spox-turned-Edelman employee Sean Neary was the first to answer that 'bounce beat' is the more up-tempo version of D.C.'s homegrown go-go, preferred by the kiddies. 
TODAY'S TRIVIA: Comes from our winner, as he tries to get over Notre Dame's loss yesterday to North Carolina in the NCAA men's lacrosse playoffs: Name the former Member of Congress who just received Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor. Email me: user@domain.com 
PROGRAMMING NOTE: Friday's edition of Huddle included Tom Cotton's 2015 race time in a 5k, instead of this year's. "Tom ran the race at 18:35, not 19:12 (last year's time). Improvement of 12 seconds per mile, on pace to break 18:00 next year," writes in a Republican who takes running times quite seriously. 
GET HUDDLE emailed to your Blackberry, iPhone or other mobile device each morning. Just enter your email address where it says "Sign Up." <<link>>
** A message from Wine & Spirits Wholesalers of America: The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) is the alcohol industry's primary regulator: licensing wineries, distilleries, breweries and wholesalers, issuing certificates of label approvals prior to market entry, and ensuring safety through rigorous sampling. In 2015 TTB processed a historic high of 154,000 label approvals, in addition to handling over 600 field investigations of trade practices and product integrity.
In FY 2015 TTB collected more than $23 billion federal tax dollars on beer, wine and spirits-for every dollar spent on collection, TTB returns $437 to the Treasury, a model of efficiency and successful oversight.
The President's budget requests $106 million to support TTB in FY 2017. America's family-owned wine and spirits wholesalers encourage Congress to fully fund the Administration's request and include an additional $5 million for Federal Alcohol Administration Act enforcement to continue this successful record established by TTB and its regulated entities. <<link>> **
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
