<x-flowed>
Folks,
Here are some thoughts about the Soon issue, partly arising from talking 
to Ben.
What is worrying is the way this BS paper has been hyped by various 
groups. The publicity has meant that the work has entered the 
conciousness of people in Congress, and is given prominence in some 
publications emanating from that sector. The work appears to have the 
imprimateur of Harvard, which gives it added credibility.
So, what can we as a community do about this? My concerns are two-fold, 
and I think these echo all of our concerns. The first is the fact that 
the papers are simply bad science and the conclusions are incorrect. The 
second is that the work is being used quite openly for political purposes.
As scientists, even though we are aware of the second issue, we need to 
concentrate on exposing the scientific flaws. We also need to do this in 
as authoritative a way as possible. I do not think it is enough to speak 
as individuals or even as a group of recognized experts. Even as a 
group, we will not be seen as having the 'power' of the Harvard stamp of 
approval.
What I think is necessary is to have the expressed support of both AGU 
and AMS. It would also be useful to have Harvard disassociate themselves 
from the work. Most importantly, however, we need the NAS to come into 
the picture. With these 4 institutions, together with us (and others) as 
experts, pointing out clearly that the work is scientific rubbish, we 
can certainly win this battle.
I suggest that we try to get NAS to set up a committee to (best option) 
assess the science in the two BS papers, or (less good, but still 
potentially very useful) assess the general issue of the paleo record 
for global- or hemispheric-scale temperature changes over the past 1000 
years. The second option seems more likely to be acceptable to NAS. This 
is arguably an issue of similar importance to the issue of climate 
sensitivity uncertainties which NAS reviewed earlier this year (report 
still in preparation).
I am not sure how to fold AGU and AMS into this -- ideas are welcome. 
Similarly, perhaps some of you know some influential Harvard types 
better than I do and can make some suggestions here.
The only way to counter this crap is to use the biggest guns we can 
muster. The Administration and Congress still seem to respect the NAS 
(even above IPCC) as a final authority, so I think we should actively 
pursue this path.
Best wishes,
Tom.
