05/18/2016 06:59 AM EDT
By Mike Allen (@mikeallen; user@domain.com) and Daniel Lippman (@dlippman; user@domain.com)
Good Wednesday morning. SNEAK PEEK - Ivanka Trump to Norah O'Donnell on "CBS This Morning," re the N.Y. Times article about her father and women: "I'm not in every interaction my father has. But he's not a groper. It's not who he is. And I've known my father obviously my whole life. And he has total respect for women. He was promoting women in development and construction at a time when it was unheard of. There was no trend towards equality in the real estate and construction industry back in the 1980s. And he was doing it because he believes ultimately in merit."
COMING ATTRACTIONS: Members of the conservative intelligentsia aching for a Republican to run independent against Trump have concluded that there is "a difficult but viable path" for an independent, based largely on the unusual unpopularity of the two nominees. A well-known conservative told us the final three possibilities are Sen. Ben Sasse, age 44, of Nebraska; Sen. Tom Coburn, 68, of Wyoming; and Mitt Romney, 69.
This conservative told us to expect renewed buzz around this possibility over the next week, and sees "a 50-50 chance that one of the three will do it."
TRUMP STRATEGERY - "Bucking trends, Trump sends teams to Democrat-leaning states," by AP's Steve Peoples, with Julie Bykowicz, Jill Colvin and Julie Pace: "Trump is rushing to install operatives in several states that traditionally favor Democrats, pointing to a general election plan consistent with the campaign he has run thus far: Defying conventional wisdom and political trends. The staffing expansion includes Maine, Minnesota and other places where Trump opens as the underdog, with the New York billionaire seeking to expand the electoral battlefield by drawing on his appeal among working class white voters ...
"[I]t is an unlikely path to the White House, through states that no Republican presidential candidate has carried since the 1980s. ... The Trump campaign has identified roughly 15 states where it plans to install state directors by the end of the month. They include traditional battlegrounds like Ohio, Florida and Virginia and more challenging terrain such as Minnesota, Michigan, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania and Maine - places Republican have lost for the last six presidential elections or longer.
"Target states also will likely include Republican-leaning Georgia, where demographic shifts benefit Democrats. ...
"Trump's team is scrambling to build a national organization essentially from scratch. 'Up until three weeks ago, there were 102 or 103 employees, which is fewer than Ben Carson had in January,' Trump aide Barry Bennett said. 'Today, that number is much bigger, and it's growing every day.'" <<link>>
SWEATING THE BERN: With 99% of the vote in (all but 4 of 3,696 precincts), AP left Kentucky's Democratic presidential primary "too close to call. ... The tight margin means that the two will split the state's delegates fairly evenly." Clinton has 46.8% to Sanders' 46.3%. That's 212,549 votes to 210,626 - a landslide margin of 1,923 out of 454,609 cast (Martin O'Malley got 1.3%, among other randos). Sanders won Oregon by 9 points.
