In the first place Mr. Cook why don't you BCC your list so your
people have a bit of privacy. You might as well send your list
directly to the FBI.I haven't had the pleasure of meeting you but I
will respond to your points.
First of all the methods you are using have and were being used for
decades without any significant success. I ought to know I used them
back in the 60's,and 70's.
You go into the streets protected by system cops. Your best people
are exposed to loss of jobs,wives and even lives at the hands of
pimple faced social Marxists who buy into your same methods only they
don't need to march. They just wait to hear you are gathering.
Believe me Mr. Barret is a little of both opportunist and nut.Plus
another point that I am not going to get into. Would any sane White
man walk around New York City with a cotton ball on his hat? Barret
is insignificant anyway.
Don't be so foolish as to compare our problem to Hitlers. Its like
comparing apples to oranges.However he did start out recruiting
FREEBOOTERS who were veterans,out of work white people and if you
will hooligans capable of breaking heads and assasination if needed.
I would think you would teach your associates to be more like Ben
Klassen and not Uncle Adolph.Ben Klassen invented things,worked for a
while in politics also real estate.After he amassed his wealth he saw
the light and spent hundreds of thousands of his own money not
members money to create a foundation to begin with. Then he authored
books that we still hold dear. I never saw Ben march in any parades
or role around in the streets with White trash social Marxists and
other rabble.I dont remember him advocating it.
Don't look now but a great many Creators are and were Skinheads. If
you insist on going into the streets you better speak a little more
kindly of your creator skinheads. Remember they will fight and defend
your white ass. Most others will run like rabbits.So I would use that
word cowardly with a little more reserve if I were you.
Unless it skipped your notice Mat Hale is in prison doing 40 years
primarily because he was young brash and arrogant.I tried to council
Mat several times about where the line is but he insisted on crossing
the line.
Also normal organizational practices like having a chief of security
its suicide and is only show anyhow.Most of them as much about
security as a 10 year old kid. I am talking through expereance not
theory. Back in the day when I played the game  your way security
positions were the most sought after positions for informants,cops
etc. My first chief of security turned out to be A San Diego PD
reserve police officer. We outed him early but he still did some
damage.
I am sure Mat never gave lie detector tests or strip search his
officers before serious discussions.The loss of 40 years of income as
an attorney would have allowed Mat to hire the best private detective
company in the country to keep things clean.
Don't get me wrong ,I only advise. If people don't like my advice
they do like you and just say shove it in capital letters. I am very
used to that.lol
Your case holds a few options. You will go into the streets or
libraries and you will be attacked by both cops and the rabble who
have less power than you do politically. People get hurt possibly
fatal or jailed. Jobs lost etc.Since this is the same tactics other
groups use you will gradually lose good people. Then you will fight
with all the other little groups for members. In the end you will
burn out,quit,or become one of the several similar personalities that
are on the ADL,SPLC,Simon Weisenthal Center speakers tour.
I regret that Mat Hale is in prison since its such a waste but he
like many other people in Prison failed to seek wise council and now
regrets it.
Good luck Mr. Cook but remember my words.
Tom Metzger
