Thanks.  In the interest of time, I took a very quick look through the agreement.  Here are my  thoughts:
1.        I think the format would work better if this was in the form of an agreement rather than a letter agreement.  It is generally how the Company would memorialize something like this, it is more in line with their format and it would solve the issue I have with par. 1  where we are not “agreeing” to anything despite how it is drafted. 
2.        Is it necessary for each of the Sony entities to be parties?  Does it include any entity that is not currently a party to an agreement with Mark E?
3.       Do we really want to define each company individually as “Sony” – let’s please think it through and make sure that the “individually and collectively” is in our best interest.  I understand why it would make the drafting easier but would hate for  separate entities to pick up obligations of another simply b/c they are defined a certain way.  Please double check that it works or change appropriately.
4.       In Par. 2 think it would be better to make clear that he isn’t giving up anything $ wise.  I think the language in the agreement is clear but since we know that is the biggest hurdle to overcome in our draft vs. theirs maybe a more finessed approach would work.  Perhaps ending the first sentence after the word Effective Date and moving the proviso up to the beginning of a new sentence
5.       In par. 2 d and 2 e we should specify under what agmts the $ is due.
6.       I assume Bob is comfortable and Steve has approved giving on the point/agreeing that he gets paid if we haven’t done a long form by August.  I am not suggesting it isn’t fine, just want to make sure since I don’t recall it every coming up before they dropped it into their draft.
7.       In par 4 – think we should be clear about logistics – we can’t put ourselves in position of being in breach if he doesn’t designate etc.  These payments go way out way in time.  Perhaps saying that it goes into same account unless he has designated a different one, which he can do at any time or from time to time etc.
8.       In par 4 a, b, c  -
a.       Take out the words “as the same may be amended or extended”
b.      Be more specific about the use of the term “therein” – as those terms are defined in par 