*Enter the National Socialist Movement " I am proud of being...."
scholarship contest for your chance to win a $1,000. scholarship to help
with your dreams!*
Entries must be received by April 20, 2008.
OFFICIAL RULES FOR THE "I AM PROUD OF BEING..."SCHOLARSHIP CONTEST
NO PURCHASE NECESSARY. Open in the continental U.S. to students in grades
10-12  High School thru First Year of College
How to Enter:
To Enter the "I Am Proud of being a..." Scholarship Contest ("Contest") each
contestant must submit an essay consisting of no less than 500 words and no
more than 1,000 words stating their personal experiences in being proud of;
their race, heritage, national socialist, etc.. Please type your essay (no
handwritten essays allowed) and send it, along with your name, address,
telephone number, the name of the school you currently attend, your grade
level to:
*National Socialist Movement Box 13768  Detroit, MI. 48213 Attn: Scholarship
contest.
*
To be eligible, all entries must be postmarked by April 20, 2008.
Entries are void if they are in whole or in part illegible, incomplete or
damaged. No responsibility is assumed for late, lost, damaged, postage due
or misdirected mail entries.
All entries become the sole property of National Socialist Movement and will
not be returned. By entering, contestants agree to abide by these rules, and
represent and warrant that their entries are their original works, do not
violate the rights of any third party, and grant to Sponsor the right to
edit, publish, promote and otherwise use of their entries and essays without
further permission, notice or compensation. Moreover, this is a non-fiction
contest and the events described in the essay must be true and must reflect
the actual events of entrant's own life.
Judging:
On or about May 20, 2008, all eligible entries received will be judged by an
independent, qualified panel of judges selected by the Commander Jeff
Schoep.
Entries will be judged based upon content (75%) and writing (25%). The
decisions of the judges  with respect to the selection of the winners, and
in regard to all matters relating to this Contest, shall be final.
Winners will be notified by mail.
*Prizes: *
*
GRAND PRIZE: The grand prize winner will receive a $1,000 cash scholarship.
Plus $100 gift certificate to NSM88 Records.*
*
FIRST PRIZE:  Winner will receive $100 cash scholarship. Plus a $50.00 Gift
certificate to NSM88 Records.*
Winning essays may be posted on the National Socialist Movement website
and/or printed in National Socialist Movement publications upon permission
of winners.
Odds of winning depend on the number of entries received. In the event that
there is an insufficient number of qualified entries Sponsor reserves the
right not to award the prizes.
Eligibility:
This contest is open in the continental U.S.  Void where prohibited by law.
Sponsored by the National Socialist Movement www.nsm88.org and NSM88 Records
www.nsm88records.com
