Hi all,
Primaries are being held in Kentucky and Oregon today, and we wanted to share with you and your teams some topline information on their Delegate Selection processes.  On our side, there are 116 pledged delegates up for grabs today.  Below, please find a brief summary of the process; attached you will find the internal fact sheets for Kentucky and Oregon.
As always, please let us know if you have any questions!
KENTUCKY (Primary)
Polls open at 6 am EDT/CDT and close at 6 pm EDT/CDT.
Results can be found here: <<link>>
There are a total of 55 pledged delegates that will be allocated proportionally based on Tuesday's results.  A 15 percent threshold is required in order for a presidential contender to received pledged delegates at either the congressional district or statewide level.
The delegate breakdown is:
District-Level-37 delegates
PLEO-6 delegates
At-Large-12 delegates
In addition to the 55 pledged delegates, there are 5 unpledged delegates from Kentucky.
Republican Process
All 46 of Kentucky's delegates to the Republican National Convention are bound to presidential contenders based on the results of the voting in the March 5, 2016 Kentucky Presidential Caucuses.
The 46 delegates to the National Convention are to be allocated proportionally among those candidates receiving 5% or more of the statewide caucus vote.  The proportional delegate allocation shall be rounded to the nearest whole delegate. In the event that a delegate is unallocated due to mathematical rounding, the unallocated delegate vote shall be cast in favor of the candidate closest to the rounding threshold. In the event that delegates are over-allocated due to mathematical rounding, the over-allocated delegate shall be removed from the candidate furthest from the rounding threshold.
OREGON (Primary)
Oregon is 100% vote by mail.  Ballots must be received by 8:00pm PDT Election day.
Results can be found here-<<link>>
Democratic Process
There are a total of 61 pledged delegates that will be allocated proportionally based on today's results.  A 15 percent threshold is required in order for a presidential contender to received pledged delegates at either the congressional district or statewide level.
The delegate breakdown is:
District Level-41 delegates
PLEO- 7 delegates
At-Large-13 delegates
District level delegates are allocated based on the results in each Congressional District. The PLEO and At-Large delegates are allocated based on the statewide results.
In addition to the 61 pledged delegates, there are 13 unpledged delegates from Oregon.
Republican Process
All 28 of Oregon's delegates to the Republican National Convention are allocated to presidential contenders based on the results of the voting in today's Presidential Primary. 28 (15 district, 10 at-large, 0 bonus, plus 3 party leader) delegates to the National Convention are to be bound to presidential contenders based on the primary vote statewide.
The 3 party leaders, the National Committeeman, the National Committeewoman, and the chairman of the Oregon's Republican Party, will attend the convention as bound delegates by virtue of their position.
This is a vote by mail primary. State election officials will be mailing ballots out to registered voters before the election; the voter has until 8 PM local time on the date of the Primary to return the completed ballot to either the county election office or a designated drop site -- postmarks do not count.
