Thanks for your comments Phil,
They look quite reasonable, and I will seek to incorporate them. I'll need
Keith's comments by tomorrow morning (my time) at the very latest if I am
to have time to assess them and incorporate them.
Some important specifics:
1) I am definitely using the version of the Briffa et al series you sent
in which Keith had restandardized to retain *more* low-frequency variability
relative to the one shown by Briffa et al (1998). So already, the
reconstruction I'm using is one-step removed from the published series
(as far as I know!) and that makes our use of even this series a bit
tenuous in my mind, but I'm happy to do it and let the reviewers tell us if
they see any problem. If I understand you correctly, there is yet a new
version of this series that is two steps removed from Briffa et al (1998)?
Frankly, at this stage I think we have to go w/ what we have (please see
Ian Macadam's plot
when it is available--I think the story it tells isn't all that bad,
actually) for the time being. Things as you say will change following
review anyways.
2) One other thingp--I'm actually averse to shortening the section on
sediments. Even if they haven't contributed to some of the multiproxy
studies (they certainly *did* contribute to Overpeck et al!) there are some
important
results there  irrespective of the role of the proxies in multiproxy
studies. Lets, again, wait for reviews before shortening this...
3) We could eliminate the map of the boreholes, although I actually think
it is essential to see what the contributing spatial sampling (and,
accordingly, the potential bias of that sampling in determining "global
mean temperature") actually is. So I vote for keeping it for the time
being. Again, it's an
extremity that we can afford to lose if necessary in the end..
4) One important note on references: We don't have time at this late stage
to dig up incomplete citations, so you'll need to give me full citations
for any suggested added references (e.g. the Villalba paper). FYI, the
Crowley and Lowery paper is Tom's Ambio paper. He observes a mean warming
of about  0.5 C since the 17th century giving us yet another datapoint in
the scatter of
estimates...
5) I agree, the ranking of centuries is more specific than it needs to be.
I don't know what I was thinking. You sure that didn't come from the text
you originally contributed?? In any case, we can eliminate much of it in my
opinion too...
On the whole, I have never been under the assumption that you and I would
have independently assessed the evidence quite the same way.  I would hope
we would have come up w/ the same key points, and so your comments in that
regard are reassuring. I feel confident in my ability to defend the science
that is presented here, so let the reviews fall where they may. I'm sure we
will be forced to admit some changes, as well as "minority viewpoints" and
alternative interpretations along the way. That's what will make this all
interesting...
mike
