Klaus,
A few belated comments on your 1st draft ...... which is looking promising:
a. we need to be careful about using concepts/terms such as 'unacceptable' global warming.
As I think Richard Tol says, we do not have any sound basis for determining what
constitutes 'dangerous' climate change.  Is it one life lost?  a nation-state inundated?
or some more utilitarian exceedance of a benefit/cost ratio?  Does every citizen on the
planet have a vote or just each government?  We should draw attention to the rather flimsy
basis upon which notions of safe or dangerous, tolerable or unacceptable climate change are
debated.  In the end of course there are lots of things we may view as 'unacceptable' (war
for example), yet they happen and we survive.  I think this is an area rich for research
and we could draw out some of the dimensions.
b. later on you use the idea of balancing abatements costs vs. the risks of climate
change.  I think we need to use the language of risk here and to draw upon insights
developed by risk analysts (academic and professionals) about how we frame the climate
change problem in risk terms.  The differential perceptions of risks, inc. climate ones,
therefore becomes central in addressing point a.
c. the proposed ECF project on changes in extreme weather is of course a necessary first
step towards the quantification of climate risks.  This should be one of the justifications
for work in this area.  It is also the case that better understanding of these changes will
yield insights into how adaptation does or should proceed, at both environmental systems
and institutional systems levels.
d. re. nuclear energy in a climate protection portfolio, the ECF should be bold and should
question and expose assumptions made on both sides of the debate about the up and
down-sides of this technology.  It is rising higher on the UK agenda and there will be some
challenging times ahead in this country about its rightful place and role.
I look forward to seeing the second draft,
Mike
