Ed,
It will take some time to digest these comments, but my initial response is one of some
disappointment. I will resist the temptation to make the letter to Science available to the
others on this list, because of my fears of violating the embargo policy (I know examples
of where doing so has led to Science retracting a piece form publication). So thanks for
also resisting the temptation to do so...
But I must point out that the piece by Malcolm and me is  very similar in its content to
the letter of clarification that you and I originally crafted to send to Science some weeks
ago, before your co-author objected to your involvement!  If there is no objection on your
part, I'd be happy to send that to everyone, because it is not under consideration in
Science (a quite unfortunate development, as far as I'm concerned). The only real change
from that version is the discussion of the use of RCS. That is in large part Malcolm's
contribution, but I stand behind what Malcolm says. I think there are some real sins of
omission with regard to the use of RCS too, and it would be an oversight on our part now to
comment on these.
Finally, with regard to the scaling issues, let me simply attach a plot which speaks more
loudly than several pages possibly could The plot takes Epser et al (not smoothed, but the
annual values) and scales it against the full Northern Hemisphere instrumental record
1856-1990 annual mean record, and compares against the entire 20th century instrumental
record (1856-1999), as well as with MBH99 and its uncertainties.
Suppose that Esper et al is indeed representative of the full Northern Hemisphere annual
mean, as MBH99 purports to be. To the extent that differences emerge between the two in
assuming such a scaling, I interpret them as differences which exist due to the fact that
the extratropical Northern Hemisphere series and full Northern Hemisphere series likely did
not co-vary in the past the same way they co-vary in the 20th century (when both are driven
predominantly, in a relative sense, by  anthropogenic forcing, rather than natural forcing
and internal variability). What the plot shows is quite remarkable. Scaled in this way,
there is remarkably little difference between Esper et al and MBH99 in the first place (the
two reconstructions are largely within the error estimates of MBH99!)!, but moreover, where
they do differ, this could be explainable in terms of patterns of enhanced mid-latitude
continental response that were discussed, for example, in Shindell et al (2001) in Science
last December. So I think this plot says a lot. Its say that there are some statistically
significant differences, but certainly no grounds to use Esper et al to contradict MBH99 or
IPCC '2001 as, sadly, I believe at least one of the published pieces tacitly appears to
want to do.
It is shame that such a plot, which I think is a far more meaningful comparison of the two
records, was not shown in either Esper et al or the Briffa & Osborn commentary. I've always
given the group of you adequate opportunity for commentary on anything we're about to
publish in Nature or Science. I am saddened that many of my colleagues (and, I have always
liked to think friends) didn't affort me the same opportunity before this all erupted in
our face. It could have been easily avoided. But that's water under the bridge.
Finally, before any more back-and-forths on this, I want to make sure that everyone
involved understands that none of this was in any way ever meant to be personal, at least
not on my part (and if it ever has, at least on my part, seemed that way, than I offer my
apologies--it was never intended that way). This is completely about the "science". To the
extent that I (and/or others) feel that the science has been mis-represented in places,
however, I personally will work very hard to make sure that a more balanced view is
available to the community. Especially because the implications are so great in this case.
This is what I sought to do w/ the NYT piece and my NPR interview, and that is what I've
sought to do (and Malcolm to, as far as I'm concerned) with the letter to Science.  Being a
bit sloppy w/ wording, and omission, etc. is something we're all guilty of at times. But I
do consider it somewhat unforgivable when it is obvious how that sloppiness can be
exploited. And you all know exactly what I'm talking about!
So, in short, I think are some fundamental issues over which we're in disagreement, and
where those exist, I will not shy away from pointing them out. But I hope that is not
mis-interpreted as in any way personal.
I hope that suffices,
Mike
p.s. It seemed like an omission to not cc in Peck and Scott Rutherford on this exchange, so
I've done that. I hope nobody minds this addition...
