Dear Mike, (and interested colleagues)
Given the list of people to whom you have chosen to circulate your message(s), we thought
we should make a short, somewhat formal, response here.  I am happy to reserve my informal
response until we are face to face! We did not respond earlier because we had more pressing
tasks to deal with. This is not the place to go into a long or over-detailed response to
all of your comments but a few brief remarks might help to clear up a couple of
misconceptions.
You consider our commentary on Ed and Jan's paper
"more flawed than even the paper itself"
on the basis that scaling the relationship between full Northern Hemisphere and
extratropical Northern Hemisphere is *much* more problematic than even any of the seasonal
issues we discuss.  In fact we did not do this.  The curve labelled Mann99 in our figure
was, in fact, based on the average of only the land areas, north of 20 degrees N, extracted
from your spatially-resolved reconstructions.  We then scaled it by calibration against the
instrumental annual temperatures from the same region.  This is, just as you stress in your
comments on the Esper et al. paper, what should have been done.  We think that this single
point addresses virtually of all your concerns.  We can, of course, argue about what this
means for the pre-1400 part of your reconstruction, when only 1 EOF was reconstructed, but
the essential message is that we did our best to exclude the tropics (and the oceans too!)
from your series so that it could more readily be compared with the other records.
The fact that we have used only the extra-tropical land from your data is not clear from
the text, so we can see why you may not have appreciated this, but we think you will
concede that this fact negates much of what you say and that we acted "more correctly" than
you realised.  Blame *Science* for being so mean with their space allocation if you want!
Remember that this was an unrefereed piece and we felt justified in concentrating on one
issue; that of the importance of the method of scaling and its effect on apparent
"absolute" reconstruction levels.  In our draft, we went on to say that this was crucial
for issues of simple model sensitivity studies and climate detection, citing the work of
Tom Crowley and Myles Allen, but this fell foul of the editor's knife.
You also express concerns about the calibration of Esper et al. (e.g., you say "if the
authors had instead used the actual (unsmoothed) instrumental record for the extratropical
northern hemisphere to scale their record, their reconstruction would be much closer to
MBH99").
This point is wholly consistent with our discussion in the perspective piece, and indeed we
show that in absolute terms the records are closer when Esper et al. is calibrated using
unsmoothed data  but since the variance is also reduced, the significance of the
differences may be just as high.
Finally, we have to say that we do not feel constrained in what we say to the media or
write in the scientific or popular press, by what the sceptics will say or do with our
results.  We can only strive to do our best and address the issues honestly.  Some
"sceptics" have their own dishonest agenda - we have no doubt of that.  If you believe that
I, or Tim, have any other objective but to be open and honest about the uncertainties in
the climate change debate, then I am disappointed in you also.
Best regards
Keith (and Tim)
