NSM Updates & News:
Hail Comrades,
National Socialist Greetings, tonight we are announcing some new
developments in the Party.
New Positions/Appointments:
Charles Wilson of NSM Kansas user@domain.com  is the newly
appointed Leader of the NSM Stormtroops. All ST. related issues should be
directed to him. We wish the former ST Leader Col. Bishop the best while he
is on leave due to personal buisiness.
Kris Johnson of NSM Wisconsin  user@domain.com is the newly appointed
Leader for the NSM Northern States Region.
NSM Legal Update: Some of you may recall about a year and 1/2 ago someone
was attempting to sue the NSM for 10 grand with a frivolous lawsuit. This
month that case was finally thrown out of court, thus granting us a Victory
in the courts.
NSM Growth: While the usual suspects continue to throw mud at the NSM and
make the same stupid claims about how we are losing 100's of members, the
same claims the same mental misfits have been saying for years, we continue
to do the opposite and membership is rising with scores of new troops  ready
to  battle the enemy and all the evil that is thrown in our way. With that
said, once again we have fallen a couple weeks behind on processing new
memberships. We at Party HQ realize there are several dozen new troops
waiting on membership books, and we ask for your patience. Your materials
will be shipped by Jan. 1st. We welcome you in advance to the National
Socialist Movement.
March on DC: The March on the Nations Capitol is being planned. What else
can we say on this one? Be there, start saving now, no excuses, all White
Patriots are welcome to attend.
NSM Records: NSM Records has just moved to a new location. Considering the
growth of the Label, we have relocated our shipping and distribution center
to a more suitable location. All orders from NSM Records now go to this
address:  NSM Records P.o. box 13768 Detroit, Michigan, 48213   All on-line
orders still go through www.nsm88records.com  Due to the move of the Record
Label from Minnesota to Michigan there has been some delay in current
orders, therefore anyone who has been delayed on orders due to the move will
be getting a free gift with their order. All orders will be shipping over
the next 10 days.
New Saxon: Check out the latest on the hottest WP networking site on-line at
www.newsaxon.org  Sponsored by the National Socialist Movement and NSM
Records.
Stay tuned for more exciting announcements and forward progress coming from
NSM HQ.
Hail Victory! Commander Schoep  www.nsm88.org
