Click here to view the web version.
UPCOMING EVENTS
Shanah Tovah U’Metukah – Wishing You a Sweet New Year!
We are so grateful to all of our wonderful members who have committed to joining us for the New Year 5775. We are excited about the year ahead, made all the more joyful by your presence and connection to Wise. On behalf of our Clergy, School Administrators, and Temple Administration, may the year ahead be filled with an abundance of blessings – for you and those you love, for Israel and the Jewish people, for Stephen Wise Temple, for the world that is so in need of blessings – health, happiness, challenges worthy of our gifts and abilities, fulfillment, and peace!
Contact
Streaming High Holy Days Services Online
While we hope that every member of our congregation is able to join us in person for our High Holy Days services, we also know this is not the reality – whether due to illness or other unforeseen circumstances. If you are unable to be here, we want to offer you an opportunity to still participate in our High Holy Days services streamed on the Internet for your convenience. Visit WiseLA.org/live to view our services streamed live, beginning at our Erev Rosh Hashanah Services and on Rosh Hashanah Day or click on the Info button below at the start of the desired service. Click here to view the service times for the Sanctuary at Stephen Wise Temple.
Info | Contact
E-Tickets for Yom Kippur Coming Soon!
If you have completed your High Holy Days ticket request via our Wise Connect online system, you will receive your Yom Kippur tickets by e-mail this Monday, September 29. If you did not use Wise Connect to order your tickets, they were sent to you in the mail last week. If, for some reason, you do not receive your e-tickets, please check your spam filter, and if you still did not receive an e-mail from user@domain.com, please contact us. There is still time to request your tickets if you haven't already. Please log in to Wise Connect with the username and password we provided you or call 310.889.2394 and we can help you over the phone. We look forward to seeing you at the High Holy Days!
Info | Contact
Tashlich at the Beach
Sunday, September 28 | 3 p.m.
Santa Monica Beach, Parking Lot 5, Lifeguard Station 26 
2600 Barnard Way, Santa Monica
Join together with our Wise community, Clergy, and administrators for the beautiful Jewish ritual of Tashlich, an uplifting gathering of song and inspiration by the seashore. Feel free to bring family and friends.
Contact
In The News
Rabbi Eli Herscher is featured in a very timely article on Forward.com. Read what he has to say about the Do's and Don'ts of Going to Synagogue Only on High Holidays. Click on the link below. 
Info | Contact
The Center for Jewish Life of Stephen Wise Temple is pleased to partner with the Shalom Hartman Institute of North America for the Westside Collaborative Lecture Series. We have arranged for members of our congregation to register for this series at no cost. The series is called: Inside, Outside, In Between: Jewish Peoplehood Today. 
Rabbi Dr. Donniel Hartman
Sunday, November 2, 2014
At Sinai Temple
Dr. Yehuda Kurtzer
Sunday, December 14, 2014
At Temple Emanuel of Beverly Hills
Dr. Elana Stein Hain
Sunday, January 11, 2015
At Temple Isaiah
Dr. Micah Goodman
Sunday, February 8, 2015
At Stephen Wise Temple
Yossi Klein Halevi
Sunday, March 8, 2015
At B’nai David-Judea 
Rabbi Lauren Berkun
Sunday, April 19, 2015
At Beth Am
Register | Contact
Watch Rabbi Herscher's Elul Shabbat Sermon Online  
If you missed Rabbi Eli Herscher's Elul Shabbat sermon last Friday night on "Repentance: Do We Demand Too Little of Ourselves - or Too Much?", or if you want to watch it again, click the "Info" button below.  
Info | Contact
MAZAL TOVS
To our B'nai Mitzvah: Wishing you a future filled with joy and blessings. May the Torah guide and inspire you every day of your adult life. Mazal tov to: 
Azadeh and Shahab Binafard and family on the Bar Mitzvah of their son, Tyler
Rachel Kaganoff Stern and Eric Stern and family on the Bar Mitzvah of their son, Jonah
Ken Gross and Sharon Rowe and family on the marriage of their daughter, Peggy and Barney Gross on the marriage of their granddaughter, Rachel Gross and Ben Gross on the marriage of their sister, and to Rebecca Gross and Oren Friedman on their marriage
Gerald Otelsberg and family on the marriage of his daughter, Bea Fisher on the marriage of her granddaughter, and to Michelle Otelsberg and Eric Massi on their marriage
Marla and Arash Raminfar and family on the birth of their son, and to Addison on the birth of her brother, Benjamin Ryan
Shayda Naeim and Alex Morazadeh and families on their marriage
We would like to hear about the simchas in your life. If you or someone you know has recently had a baby, wedding, engagement, or any other simcha, our Clergy and community would like to share in it with you. Click here to inform us or email user@domain.com.
TRIBUTES
We honor people through charitable giving. 
RABBIS’ DISCRETIONARY FUND
IN HONOR OF:
the marriage of their daughter Rebecca Gross to Oren Friedman, by Sharon Rowe and Ken Gross
the bar mitzvah of their grandson Gabriel, by Lynn and Bruce Kaufman
the marriage of their son Steven Gurvitz to Sasha Campbell, by Gloria and Ron Gurvitz
IN MEMORY OF:
Stuart Marylander, by Judith Marylander
Maxine Goodman Levin and Freda Cohen Farber, by Ruth and Marvin Kalin
Esther Segal, by Linda and Richard Adler
Herschel Davis, by Ruth Davis and family
Ira Harris, by Joyce and Paul Krasnow Family
CANTOR’S DISCRETIONARY FUND
IN HONOR OF:
the bar mitzvah of their grandson Gabriel, by Lynn and Bruce Kaufman
METUKA BENJAMIN SCHOLARSHIP FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Allan Freeman, by Heidi and Albert Praw
SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Ruth Nudelman, by Nancy Norris
SAM DUBMAN SOVA FUND
IN HONOR OF:
Bea Dubman on her 95th birthday, by Ruth and Arnold Colman, Nancy Colman, Wendy, Barry, Brandon and Brooke Levin
IN MEMORY OF:
Sam Dubman, by Bea Dubman
SOL AND ESTHER SMITH LIBRARY FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Sol Smith, by Marcia, Mark J., Alex, and Amanda Smith
SUMMER CAMP SCHOLARSHIP FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Mollie Berman and Harry Berman, by Linda and Jeff Linden
Irving Kaplan, the Kaplan Girls
LESLIE SHELDON ZOLA SCIENCE SCHOLARHSIP FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Betty Eichelbaum, by Shelia Burman and Dick Laurence
David Siegal, by Shelia Burman and Dick Laurence
YAHRZEIT FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Florence Donner, by Michael Donner
Sol Smith, by Carolynne and Ze’ev Drori 
Herschel Davis, by Carol and Howard Rosen
Herbert Pearlson, by Nina Leung and Bryan Leung
Arnold Bierman, by the Gad Family
Robert Resnick, by Carol Sookman
Anna Williams, by Sunny Caine
THANK YOU 
We appreciate our wonderful Nosh Volunteers and Greeters. Thank you for making Shabbat a welcoming experience for all! 
Norma Cooper
Susan Firestone
Peggy Wehrle
New Member Basket Volunteers:
Joyce Anderson
Marita Anderson
Holly Binafard
Claudia Brown
Susan Firestone
Julie Hartstein
Corie Koss
Alison Kronenberg
AnnDee Levy
Orly Raz
Genene Turndorf
Annual Campaign Volunteers:
Ronni Epstein
Susan Firestone
Carol Gray
Ginny Kahn
Shelly Levy
Marilyn Schwadron
Phil Sniderman
Peggy Wehrle
This Week's Torah Portion
Ha'azinu
Shabbat Services for Friday, September 26 - Saturday, September 27
Friday, September 26: 6:15 p.m. | Shabbat Service | Rabbi Ron Stern and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Rabbi Stern's sermon topic is entitled: "Shabbat Shuva--Returning to the Self that We Can Be" | Plotkin Chapel
Saturday, September 27: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan | Dennis Prager and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Hershenson Hall
Contact Clergy
Yom Kippur Services for Friday, October 3 - Friday, October 4
Friday, October 3: Various times | Erev Yom Kippur Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule.
Saturday, October 4: Various times | Yom Kippur Day Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule.
Contact Clergy
Live Streaming for our Shabbat Service on the Web
If you or someone you know is home-bound, unable to travel to our campus, or if you are unable to attend services, visit WiseLA.org/Live to watch our Friday evening Shabbat Services. Streaming is available on all computers, as well as supported mobile devices, including iPhones and iPads. We look forward to sharing Shabbat with you – both in person and over the web!
SCHOOL CALENDARS
Early Childhood
Calendar | Contact
K-6
Calendar | Contact
Wise Parent Association
Calendar | Contact
CONNECT
Phone: 310.476.8561
Web: WiseLA.org
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Send us an Email
If your spouse or partner (or someone else you know) would like to be added to the WiseGuide weekly email list,
or if you wish to inform us about a lifecycle event, email user@domain.com.
L'Shanah Tovah U'Metukah - Have a Happy and Sweet New Year!
