Hails ST Keene,  cc: various NSM Offices
I need a flyer made for us at NSM HQ. A vicious nigger attack on a white
man happened near where we live here in Detroit. I am looking for something
urging White's to fight back against gang violence, and send a message that
such criminal behavior will not be allowed or tolerated in our Community.
White men and women fight back, Join the National Socialist Movement. There
is still hope in America for White people, strike back and reclaim our
Community from violence and savagery!!  ST. Keene, I don't want the word
nigger or anything like that on the flyer, just a positive message where
people will know exactly what we are talking about without having to be
overly obvious (ha ha), this is Detroit, trust me, every White person here
will know exactly what we are talking about. I thought recruitment in
Minneapolis was prime territory, no way, things are 100 times worse in
Detroit, and the Whites and blacks here are more segregated than most any
place I have been. I live in a mostly White suburb, but drive down the road
a bit, and its 95% black with the 3% being Arabs running some buisinesses
mostly behind bullet proof glass, and 2% white and others. The NSM p.o. box
is in the ghetto so I get to be part of that World everyday.
I saw the link below and posted on a forum board what you see below. Can you
do up some flyer samples in pdf for me to print and for us to get out here,
we will make the news for sure, people here are pissed off about this.
Here is the video:
<<link>>
Welcome to Detroit! Mt. Clemons is a Suburb, right down the street from
where I live.
In fact some of the locals suggestted we make flyers and blanket Mt. Clemons
and the surrounding Suburbs.
Anyone with some graphics skills that would want to step up and make a
flyer? The NSM will pass them out in Mt. Clemons. All I need is a pdf flyer,
and we will cover the area ourselves.
Anyone in the Detroit area that wants to help out, get in contact.
NSM HQ P.o. box 13768 Detroit, MI. 48213 www.nsm88.org
Actions speak louder than words.
