<x-flowed>
Dear Tom,
Thanks for forwarding the message from John Christy. Excuse me for being 
so blunt, but John's message is just a load of utter garbage.
I got a laugh out of John's claim that Santer et al. (2008) was "poorly 
done". This was kind of ironic coming from a co-author of the Douglass 
et al. (2007) paper, which used a fundamentally flawed statistical test 
to compare modeled and observed tropospheric temperature trends. To my 
knowledge, John has NEVER acknowledged that Douglass et al. used a 
flawed statistical test to reach incorrect conclusions - despite 
unequivocal evidence from the "synthetic data" experiments in Santer et 
al. (2008) that the Douglass et al. "robust consistency" test was simply 
wrong. Unbelievably, Christy continues to assert that the results of 
Douglass et al. (2007) "still stand". I can only shake my head in 
amazement at such intellectual dishonesty. I guess the best form of 
defense is a "robust" attack.
So how does John support his contention that Santer et al. (2008) was 
"poorly done"? He begins by stating that:
"Santer et al. 2008 used ERSST data which I understand has now been 
changed in a way that discredits the conclusion there".
Maybe you or Tom Peterson or Dick Reynolds can enlighten me on this one. 
How exactly have NOAA ERSST surface data changed? Recall that Santer et 
al. (2008) actually used two different versions of the ERSST data 
(version 2 and version 3). We also used HadISST sea-surface temperature 
data, and combined SSTs and land 2m temperature data from HadCRUT3v. In 
other words, we used four different observational estimates of surface 
temperature changes. Our bottom-line conclusion (no significant 
discrepancy between modeled and observed lower-tropospheric lapse-rate 
trends) was not sensitive to our choice of observed surface temperature 
dataset.
John next assets that:
"Haimberger's v1.2-1.4 (of the radiosonde data) are clearly spurious due 
to the error in ECMWF as published many places".
I'll let Leo Haimberger respond to that one. And if v1.2 of Leo's data 
is "clearly spurious", why did John Christy agree to be a co-author on 
the Douglass et al. paper which uses upper-air data from v1.2?
Santer et al. (2008) comprehensively examined structural uncertainties 
in the observed upper-air datasets. They looked at two different 
satellite and seven different radiosonde-based estimates of tropospheric 
temperature change. As in the case of the surface temperature data, 
getting the statistical test right was much more important (in terms of 
the bottom-line conclusions) than the choice of observational upper-air 
dataset.
Christy's next criticism of our IJoC paper is even more absurd. He 
states that:
"Santer et al. 2008 asked a very different question...than we did. Our 
question was "Does the IPCC BEST ESTIMATE agree with the Best Data 
(including RSS)?" Answer - No.  Santer et al. asked, "Does ANY IPCC 
model agree with ANY data set?" ... I think you can see the difference.
Actually, we asked and answered BOTH of these questions. "Tests with 
individual model realizations" are described in Section 4.1 of Santer et 
al. (2008), while Section 4.2 covers "Tests with multi-model 
ensemble-mean trend". As should be obvious - even to John Christy - we 
did NOT just compare observations with results from individual models.
For both types of test ("individual model" and "multi-model average"), 
we found that, if one applied appropriate statistical tests (which 
Douglass et al. failed to do), there was no longer a serious discrepancy 
between modeled and observed trends in tropical lapse rates or in 
tropical tropospheric temperatures.
Again, I find myself shaking my head in amazement. How can John make 
such patently false claims about our paper? The kindest interpretation 
is that he is a complete idiot, and has not even bothered to read Santer 
et al. (2008) before making erroneous criticisms of it. The less kind 
interpretation is that he is deliberately lying.
A good scientist is willing to acknowledge the errors he or she commits 
(such as applying an inappropriate statistical test). John Christy is 
not a good scientist. I'm not a religious man, but I'm sure willing to 
thank some higher authority that Dr. John Christy is not the 
"gatekeeper" of what constitutes sound science.
I hope you don't mind, Tom, but I'm copying this email to some of the 
other co-authors of the Santer et al. (2008) IJoC paper. They deserve to 
know about the kind of disinformation Christy is spreading.
With best regards,
Ben
