THE NSM UNIFORM
These uniform standards are effective as of April 20th, 2008 and
supersede all previous standards.  For internal meetings and various other
occasions as dictated by command, the Stormtrooper and Women's Division
dress uniform will be used as they have in the past.  For all public
functions, the new Duty uniform will be used.
Commander Jeff Schoep
Uniform Requirements:
The NSM has strict requirements of attire.  We wear our uniform with pride
because it represents our strength and the warrior code found within the
precept of National Socialism.  These uniforms are to be worn at all NSM
functions, including meetings, rallies and protests.
Stormtrooper Dress Uniform and Women's Division Dress Uniform:
The standards for the dress uniforms are as they have been prior.
Duty Uniform (both sexes):
Shirt =96 black BDU purchased through NSM Records www.nsm88records.com  or =
by
mail to Party HQ.
Pants =96 black BDU (battle dress uniform) style or Dickies black slacks
(Pants should be bloused into boots)
Boots - black military style (black laces only)
Belt - black belt with silver buckle or Stormtrooper buckle
Cap(optional) =96 Black SWAT style cap
Rank insignia =96 in keeping with the spirit of modernizing our image, Blac=
k
BDU rank insignia are the only approved badge of rank.  They are to be worn
mid chest along the button line in keeping with current US military
standards, sewn on with the upper edge even with the upper pockets, directl=
y
on the fabric covering the buttons on the BDU . Rank will be verified.  See
below for ordering of the official new rank insignia, $5
NSM Patch =96 on left shoulder 1 inch below shoulder seam
State patch(optional) =96 only official approved State patch, on right
shoulder 1 inch below shoulder seam.  See below for ordering of the State
patch for your state $6
Party pin =96 1 party pin may be worn over the left pocket.
*Order form for Rank Insignia and State Patches*
# Patches State or Rank needed                         Total for Line
