<x-flowed>
Dear Tim,
Thanks very much for your email. I greatly appreciate the additional 
information that you've given me. I am a bit conflicted about what we 
should do.
IJC published a paper with egregious statistical errors. Douglass et al. 
was essentially a commentary on work by myself and colleagues - work 
that had been previously published in Science in 2005 and in Chapter 5 
of the first U.S. CCSP Report in 2006. To my knowledge, none of the 
authors or co-authors of the Santer et al. Science paper or of CCSP 1.1 
Chapter 5 were used as reviewers of Douglass et al. I am assuming that, 
when he submitted his paper to IJC, Douglass specifically requested that 
certain scientists should be excluded from the review process. Such an 
approach is not defensible for a paper which is largely a comment on 
previously-published work.
It would be fair and reasonable to give IJC the opportunity to "set the 
record straight", and correct the harm they have done by publication of 
Douglass et al. I use the word "harm" advisedly. The author and 
coauthors of the Douglass et al. IJC paper are using this paper to argue 
that "Nature, not CO2, rules the climate", and that the findings of 
Douglass et al. invalidate the "discernible human influence" conclusions 
of previous national and international scientific assessments.
Quick publication of a response to Douglass et al. in IJC would go some 
way towards setting the record straight. I am troubled, however, by the 
very real possibility that Douglass et al. will have the last word on 
this subject. In my opinion (based on many years of interaction with 
these guys), neither Douglass, Christy or Singer are capable of 
admitting that their paper contained serious scientific errors. Their 
"last word" will be an attempt to obfuscate rather than illuminate. They 
are not interested in improving our scientific understanding of the 
nature and causes of recent changes in atmospheric temperature. They are 
solely interested in advancing their own agendas. It is telling and 
troubling that Douglass et al. ignored radiosonde data showing 
substantial warming of the tropical troposphere - data that were in 
accord with model results - even though such data were in their 
possession. Such behaviour constitutes intellectual dishonesty. I 
strongly believe that leaving these guys the last word is inherently unfair.
If IJC are interested in publishing our contribution, I believe it's 
fair to ask for the following:
1) Our paper should be regarded as an independent contribution, not as a 
comment on Douglass et al. This seems reasonable given i) The 
substantial amount of new work that we have done; and ii) The fact that 
the Douglass et al. paper was not regarded as a comment on Santer et al. 
(2005), or on Chapter 5 of the 2006 CCSP Report - even though Douglass 
et al. clearly WAS a comment on these two publications.
2) If IJC agrees to 1), then Douglass et al. should have the opportunity 
to respond to our contribution, and we should be given the chance to 
reply. Any response and reply should be published side-by-side, in the 
same issue of IJC.
I'd be grateful if you and Phil could provide me with some guidance on 
1) and 2), and on whether you think we should submit to IJC. Feel free 
to forward my email to Glenn McGregor.
With best regards,
Ben
