Even if you have already written a letter to Deseret
News this week, I need you to write at least one more.
They are running a 6-part, horrible series on suicide
totally written by some PR firm paid by psychs and
drug companies.
It is designed to key everyone in and then hand them
the psych solutions. It's disgusting. I can barely
read them and keep my lunch.
Anyway, if you're up to it, here is the assignment.
Pick one of these 3 assignments below. Read the
article or at least scan over it, then follow the
directions.
1. From today:
<<link>>,1249,635202563,00.html
Schools at a loss: How districts handle teen deaths
varies
Write a letter and send it to user@domain.com.
Write whatever you want, but if your last name ends in
R-Z, I have a particular message. The article says
that the school implemented a suicide prevention
program in the school a month before Blake Eggett and
J.J. Serassio committed suicide but it isn't known
whether they participated in the program. I want you
to SLAM the reporters for not finding out. Didn't they
do any research at all? Or do they actually just leave
out that information because it didn't fit the story
they wanted to promote. The real story is the school
implemented psych-based suicide prevention and buried
two students. That's a story!
2. From Tuesday the 25th:
<<link>>,1249,635202210,00.html
5 suicides jolt southern Utah
Write a letter and send it to user@domain.com with
a copy to the lowlife reporters at user@domain.com
and user@domain.com. Write anything you want but I
suggest the usual lines of how psych drugs are
dangerous, how there is no science to psychiatry, etc.
3. From Monday the 24th:
<<link>>,1249,635201591,00.html
Fighting the Demons
Write a letter and send it to user@domain.com. If
your last name ends in A-M, send a copy to the lowlife
reporters at user@domain.com and user@domain.com.
Write whatever you want.
Once you're done with your first one, send compliance
by email. If you're up to it, write more letters about
the other articles, or about any of them in the
series. You can search for the whole series at
www.desnews.com.
Thanks!
Doyle
