HI Tim,
Thanks for your message. Yes, you guys have us beat on the early monday end of things!
Your points are all taken. I think we all agree there is much work left to be done, more
than enough for all of us to continue to be involved in constructive collaboration, etc.
Scott and I, for example, are almost done writing up the work based on  your visit w/ us
last year, and will send the initial draft on to you, Keith, and the others involved in the
near future. It will be a good chance to try to address a lot of these questions in an
article of adequate length to discuss the nuances that unfortunately cannot be addressed in
a shorter piece.
I also appreciate your more detailed comments about the comparisons, etc. Your points are
all reasonable ones. We can maintain an honest difference about how well those points were
conveyed in the Science piece (for example, you can imagine how the statement in your piece
"This record has a smaller amplitude of century-to-century variability, and is consistently
at or near the upper limit of alternate records produced by other researchers" might indeed
have been interpreted as setting MBH99 apart as, in your words, an "outlier").
We have good reason to believe that our reconstruction *will* in fact nderestimate
extratropical temperature means but far less so full globe/hemisphere-means prior to the
18th century because the basis functions that primarily set the extratropics apart from the
full hemispheric patterns  (e.g., NAO type patterns and other anomaly patterns largely
carried by EOFs #2 and #3) start to drop out from our basis set prior to the 18th century,
while the pattern that best resolves the full global and/or hemispheric mean (with note
from MBH98,  particularly large loadings primarily in the tropics and subtropics) still
remains. That is why we have never published an *extratropical* temperature reconstruction
prior to the 18th century. I would be happy to discuss this point with you and Keith and
others in more detail. Thus, I have compared Esper et al w/ our records in the manner
described in my previous email, which I think allows us to diagnose the extent to which
differing high-latitude and full-hemispheric patterns may, at times, explain the somewhat
modest differences between the records when similarly scaled to the full hemispheric
1856-1990 mean, and always, within  the context of the diagnosed uncertainties. There is no
guarentee, as you say, that the uncertainties are correct, but I personally believe they'll
stand up over time. You can call me on this 10 years from now, and somebody will owe
somebody a beer...
In any case, I hope and fully expect we can all continue to all be engaged in constructive
interaction & hopefully continued collaboration.  It will require some sensitivity on all
our part to the larger issues surrounding our work, and the way it gets presented to the
broader community, but I don't think that should be all that difficult.
I look forward to these more constructive interactions. I'll do my best to foster them,
Mike
