Click here to view this email online.
SAVE THE DATE and register now! 
Complimentary invitation for Corporate Counsel -- use code EM100.
"The Exchange" Los Angeles
EVENT DATE: 
December 9-10, 2014
LOCATION:
L'Ermitage Beverly Hills
9291 Burton Way
Beverly Hills CA 90210
Because of your status in the legal community you have been chosen to receive this complimentary invitation.
Use Code EM100 to register for Free -- $199 Value. (No vendors or service providers permitted unless sponsoring.)
» REGISTER NOW
Dear Colleague,
Attend the number one eDiscovery conference --  "The Exchange" Los Angeles colloquium  -- to participate in, and learn from, a deep-dive conversation as to:
WHO should be the key members of a cross-disciplinary in-house eDiscovery team?
WHAT are the latest trends in ESI handling at the preservation, collection, culling and review stages of eDiscovery?
WHERE on the eDiscovery process timeline can the biggest cost reductions be achieved?
WHY are many corporations growing their in-house project-management capabilities and beefing up their ESI toolset?
WHEN is an anticipated set of eDiscovery-focused amendments to the Federal Rules likely to take effect?
There are no PowerPoint presentations, "Death by PowerPoint...", just real discussions, following the agenda as an outline, where a document is created from the pain points and solutions addressed that effect counsel and then emailed to all of the participants. There is a great amount of networking time built in as well! 
Whether you are In-House Counsel, law firm attorney, or one of the "hands-on" people at your company or firm, CEO, CTO, CFO, Litigation Support Manager, Leader of an Information Management or e-Discovery team, you will benefit from participating and we would be very pleased to see you there.
» AGENDA   |   » SPEAKERS   |   » FEEDBACK
LEAD MODERATORS
David Kessler
Partner
Norton Rose Fulbright
Robert Brownstone 
Technology & eDiscovery Counsel, and Co-Chair, Electronic Information Management Group
Fenwick & West LLP
Jennifer Feldman 
Of Counsel
DLA Piper
TGCI SPONSORS
» REGISTER NOW For FREE
Use code EM100 ($199 value)
CLE Accreditation: Today's General Counsel Institute is in the process of securing CLE accreditation.Please contact Neil Signore, Senior VP and Managing Director, TGCI, at  user@domain.com with any questions or in regard to sponsorship.  www.todaysgeneralcounsel.com/instituteYou are receiving this email because of your standing in the legal and business communities. CLICK HERE and we will immediately remove you from any future Today's General Counsel promotional emails.
Stay Connected:
Today's General Counsel
20 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606
