05/19/2016 07:45 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Thursday morning, Illinois. The City of Chicago is threatening to privatize security at O'Hare and Midway airports following dismal performance by the TSA that's brought insanely long lines. TSA's chief Peter Neffenger is visiting Chicago today, where, according to Sun-Times columnist Mark Brown, he will proceed to blame three-hour plus security lines on the flying public. That should go over well. 
An unusual story is unfolding out of northwest suburban Elgin, where a public mural up for years was just recognized to be tied to a most horrific scene. When placed side by side a historic photo of a 1930s public lynching of two black men, it appears to match the portion of the photo showing the crowd's reaction. The revelation has the town reeling and a hearing is scheduled to discuss whether it should be taken down. The mural was up for 10 years before passersby saw a resemblance between it and a historic photo in Marion, Indiana of the lynching. See both images here and read the story: "Elgin mural's connection to lynching photo raises questions," Elgin Courier-News reports: 
<<link>> 
CLAYPOOL GOES UP AGAINST RAUNER -- Chicago Public Schools chief Forrest Claypool will be among 200 people rallying today in Chicago calling on Springfield to act on school funding reform. Ald. Michael Scott Jr. will also speak at the rally. The invite: <<link>> 
At the same time: A group of school superintendents, including Claypool have signed a letter to Gov. Bruce Rauner today, asking him to approve a change to the school funding formula. "Instead of working to fix how the state funds education, we are disappointed to see that your administration is proposing an approach that would continue the broken status quo, helping districts that are already wealthy and putting a greater burden on districts that have high concentrations of poverty. We urge you to recommit your administration to working with the General Assembly to pass a funding formula that treats districts fairly and doesn't stack the deck against students who already face the greatest
challenges." The 15 superintendents from districts across the state, including Waukegan, Peoria and Taylorville, among others. Read the letter: <<link>> 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
RAHM ON THE HOT SEAT -- "Fed judge: Emanuel may be called to testify about code of silence," by Chicago Sun-Times' Jon Seidel: "Mayor Rahm Emanuel may be called to testify during a civil trial about the Chicago Police Department's notorious code of silence. But U.S. District Judge Gary Feinerman said he reluctantly made the ruling only because city lawyers turned agnostic in court on the question of whether such a code exists - promising not to deny it when a whistleblower lawsuit goes to trial, but refusing to confirm it. Meanwhile, Emanuel has already acknowledged the code in a speech to the City Council last December." <<link>> 
HOUSTON COULD BECOME THIRD LARGEST CITY -- "Chicago losing population, could be overtaken by Houston as 3rd-largest," by Chicago Tribune's Marwa Eltagouri: "Chicago, the only city among the nation's 20 largest to see population loss in 2015, could be overtaken in a decade by Houston as the third-most-populous city if the trend continues, experts said. The city of Chicago lost about 2,890 residents between 2014 and 2015." <<link>> 
SELL SOME TO ELGIN WHILE YOU'RE AT IT -- "24 years after proposing spray paint ban, Burke wants to relax it," by Chicago Sun-Times' Fran Spielman: "The sponsor of Chicago's 24-year-old ban on spray paint wants to relax the law, allowing sales to adults and helping retailers in border wards that are losing business to the suburbs. Ald. Edward Burke (14th), chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee, agreed to propose the change to the groundbreaking ordinance he championed. Since 1992, Chicago has had a law on the books that bans the sale of spray paint. The goal was to take away at least one of the tools that taggers use to vandalize buildings, streets and sidewalks with graffiti." 
<<link>> 
** A message from VoteVets Action Fund: Strong prevailing wage laws improve the lives of veterans, who work in construction at much higher rates than non-veterans. Each year, prevailing wage laws help hundreds of thousands of returning veterans put their skills to work building our communities while providing a middle class life for their families. - <<link>> **
TSA DEBACLE 'MONTHS IN THE MAKING' -- "Brown: Airport security fiasco demands more than just new hires," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mark Brown: "The essence of that problem is that the Transportation Security Administration cut way back on its staffing levels in anticipation of large numbers of travellers paying $85 and submitting to an interview to enroll in its PreCheck program for expedited boarding. Except only a fraction of those expected to sign up for PreCheck did so." <<link>> 
NOTHING LIKE A THREAT TO GET THINGS MOVING -- "Emanuel uses possible privatization of security at airports to leverage TSA," by Chicago Tribune's Bill Ruthhart: "Mayor Rahm Emanuel is seeking to use the threat of privatizing security screening at O'Hare and Midway airports to leverage the Transportation Security Administration into beefing up inadequate Chicago staffing that has left travelers waiting in huge lines and rescheduling missed flights. A group of influential aldermen introduced a resolution Wednesday calling on Emanuel's administration to apply for the TSA Screening Partnership Program, which would allow City Hall to contract with federally approved private firms to screen
passengers and baggage at Chicago airports. The move also would give the city greater flexibility in security assignments, staffing levels and operating hours of staff." 
"Ald. Edward Burke, the powerful chairman of the City Council's Finance Committee, said 20 airports across the country already have taken steps toward privatizing security screening, including ones in San Francisco, Orlando, Fla., and Kansas City, Mo. Burke, 14th, said New York and Atlanta also have sent letters to the TSA requesting to be allowed to privatize security screening. 'I think Chicago should be doing the same,' Burke said." <<link>> 
TSA TODAY: LOW MORALE, HIGH TURNOVER -- "The View From Behind The Security Check," by WBEZ's Melba Lara: "Over the last three years, the Transportation Security Administration and Congress cut the number of front-line screeners by about 10 percent. On Tuesday, TSA sent 58 more screeners to O'Hare to relieve some of the tension. Eddie Palacios, president of Chicago TSA officers Local 777, spoke to WBEZ's Melba Lara about the situation from a screener's point of view. He says lines are growing now because flight loads always increase in May and June, but also says there bigger issues at play." <<link>> 
WHAT DIFFERENCE A DAY MAKES (NONE) -- "TSA lines still long at Chicago airports," by ABC 7's Tanja Babich: "Less than 24 hours after the TSA administrator apologized for hours-long wait times at Chicago airports, passengers encountered a massive security line at O'Hare International Airport. ABC7 Eyewitness News viewers Patty Donovan and Krissy Kosmoski shared photos of the line at O'Hare around 3:30 a.m. Wednesday. Kosmoski said despite the long wait, airport personnel did a great job moving people whose flights were scheduled to depart earlier than others to the front of the line. After gaining national attention for major travel delays at O'Hare and Midway International Airport, the TSA
announced Tuesday that it's making some changes." <<link>> 
STRONG COUNCIL, WEAK MAYOR -- "Signs Point to Disconnect Between City Council, Chicago Mayor," by NBC Chicago's Mary Ann Ahern: "More clues surfaced at Wednesday's Chicago City Council meeting that Mayor Rahm Emanuel is experiencing perhaps the toughest period of his tenure. Votes from aldermen on key issues showed signs of a strong council and a weak mayor, the likes of which Chicago has not seen in years. Following the Licensing Committee's approval of regulations on house-sharing businesses like Airbnb, Emanuel promised a vote on the floor Wednesday, but that full council vote was delayed after several aldermen requested more time. The mayor's office had made last-minute changes on the
bill up until midnight before the meeting, according to Ald. Brendan Reilly." <<link>> 
LET'S CHANGE THE SUBJECT -- "Emanuel proposes transgender restroom ordinance," by Chicago Tribune's John Byrne: "Chicago hotels, restaurants and grocery stores would not be allowed to require patrons to prove their gender in order to use restrooms under a proposal Mayor Rahm Emanuel introduced Wednesday ... If the measure passes, 'public accommodations' like grocery stores would be prohibited from requiring patrons to show government IDs to access restrooms. It's unclear whether that's actually happening anywhere in the city, however. And the proposal says nothing about enforcement." <<link>> 
NOT BUYING IT -- "Top Cop Eddie Johnson Spins Tall Tales While Trying To Earn Chicago's Trust," by DNAinfo's Mark Konkol: "With a careful mix of seemingly credible details and unchallenged exaggeration, Police Supt. Eddie Johnson has offered up a pretty fuzzy picture of his journey to becoming the police boss charged with addressing the troubled city's shooting problem. Johnson started spinning his yarn on his first day on the job - a position he had not applied for when he was hand-picked by Mayor Rahm Emanuel to run the department. He introduced himself to Chicagoans by offering up some pretty interesting details about his 27 years on the force. One particularly stood out. 'I've actually
never encountered police misconduct,' he said." <<link>> 
NEW LUCAS IDEA: HABITABLE GREEN ROOF -- "Put a Park on It: Save the Lucas Museum," by New City's Nick Cecchi: "It appears as though Chicago will lose the Lucas Museum after a protracted and unnecessary legal battle with Friends of the Parks ... It is not often that architecture can provide solutions to what are fundamentally political and social problems, however this may be an exception. The simple reconfiguration of the museum to incorporate a habitable green roof (see illustration above) would provide continuous parkland across the site-a sure improvement over the current condition. With an uninterrupted ground plane, the welcome addition of some topography, and the stitching together of
previously disconnected sections of the lakefront green space, this approach could save the museum while drastically improving the lakefront for public use." <<link>> 
THE BIG SELL TO THE PUBLIC, IN FOUR STEPS -- "Oh, the irony: Mayor Rahm's allies call Lucas Museum opponents elitists," by The Reader's Ben Joravsky: "The power struggle over the Lucas Museum isn't being driven by some group of elites (read: rich white people), and it has nothing to do with race-though that won't stop the mayor and his pals from invoking it. In many ways, the mayor and his allies are following a script written by Emanuel's predecessor-Mayor You-Know-Who-when he tried to cram the Children's Museum into Grant Park or turn Chicago's parks into construction zones for the 2016 Olympics. Call it a four-step process. 
"Step one: The mayor announces, Great news, Chicago! You're getting something you didn't know you wanted. ... Step two: The mayor pressures his oversight boards and bodies to approve the deal without anything resembling serious oversight. ... Step three: The mayor gets scions of civic and corporate Chicago-always willing to oblige-to praise the plan. Usually they quote Daniel Burnham, who's not around to defend himself since he's been dead for more than a century. Finally, if there's any resistance, the mayor brings out the heavy artillery-often Father Pfleger-to denounce the opposition as elitists." <<link>> 
SURF'S UP NEAR LAKE MICHIGAN -- "On-Land Surfing At Montrose Beach? Meeting To Renovate Beach House Thursday," by DNAinfo's Josh McGhee: "Chicago Surf has big plans that could make Uptown a destination for surfers across the city. The surf park vendor's proposal, which includes building an on-land surf park and renovating the Clarendon Park Community Center, will be discussed at a Thursday community meeting hosted by 46th Ward Ald. James Cappleman, according to Uptown Update. Improvements would include completely renovating utility sewer and water lines and restrooms and adding licensed security officers and security cameras linked to the Town Hall District police station." 
<<link>> 
FORMER BEARS PLAYERS IN CRASH -- "Barrington Hills crash kills man, injures former Bears players," by Northwest Herald's Katie Dahlstrom: "Police have identified the Barrington Hills man who died after a crash Monday, as well as the two former Chicago Bears players who were injured. Salvatorre J. DiMucci, 35, was driving a 2015 Mercedes Benz east on Goose Lake Drive west of Brinker Road about 9:45 p.m. when the vehicle left the road, struck a tree and crashed into the ditch ... Police identified the two 30-year-old passengers as former Bears backup quarterback Caleb Hanie, of Rockwall, Texas, and Agoura Hills, California resident Joseph LaRocque, a linebacker who appeared in 14 games for
the bears between 2008 and 2009." <<link>> 
STATE 
10K PROTEST RAUNER, MADIGAN EATS IT UP -- "Buttoned-up Madigan pumps fist in air at anti-Rauner union rally," by Chicago Tribune's Celeste Bott: "It's not often, if ever, that House Speaker Michael Madigan is seen pumping his fist in the air. But the usually reserved 74-year-old Democrat did just that Wednesday as thousands of state workers cheered while he fired up union troops gathered to protest against Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner. A crowd that Springfield police estimated at 10,000 flooded the streets in front of the Capitol, calling on Rauner to resume contract talks with the state's largest employee union and drop his demands that collective bargaining rights be scaled back before
he'd sign off on a full state budget. While Rauner has spent the last few weeks declaring he's optimistic a grand compromise could be reached before lawmakers head home for the summer, the union display was indicative of the deep ideological divide that's fueled the state's record-breaking budget impasse." <<link>> 
WHAT SPRINGFIELD LOOKED LIKE -- "On Twitter: The view of Wednesday's large union rally," by The State Journal-Register: Twitter highlights of the demonstration. <<link>> 
