Phil,
I think you need to respond by providing E&E with a simple answer 
of "false" to Keenan's write-up, based on the communication with me 
(but no mention of SUNYA confidentiality issue, it has to come 
directly from SUNYA).  That will force E*E to contact either me 
directly or SUNYA.  If the former, I can refer to SUNYA also, and let 
the university to handle it.  
My reading is that, since the IPCC policy report is coming out soon 
(in October?), Keenan is in panic and wants to tint the Nature paper 
as much and as soon as possible, so he can not wait for SUNYA to 
conduct "inquery" (not investigation) which he knows he is not getting 
what he wants.  Going to news medium will not do his trick because he 
can not really explain it.  So in a way Keenan traps himself now, 
betting on that the "station history" was not available and that the 
stations have moved a lot (he does not know that at all).  We are 
facing a tricky person and group, and the only way to do it is to 
follow the procedure to drive them crazy.  E&E is not going to publish 
it without giving me the chance to respond, and that is when SUNYA 
comes in and that is what Keenan does not want to see as well, he 
wants to create a smocky screen before the truth comes out. We are not 
going to let Keenan doing things his way.  So be easy, and respond 
directly what you learn from me (and any other scienctific issues you 
can identify) and perhaps even ask E&E to contact me/or SUNYA for 
verification. 
I know you are under tremendous pressure, but Keenan is in panic and 
what he has done is going back to burn him, badly.  We should be 
thinking, after the whole odeal is over, to take legal (or other) 
actions against Keenan.  This is time I regre not been a rich person, 
otherwise I can throw a million dollar lawsuit against him.
Let me know what you want to do.  I have also asked SUNYA's opinion 
about what you should do within the SUNYA framework.  But be careful 
that you do not know much about SUNYA action.
WCW
