Dear Keith,
Stepan Shiyatov tell me that you need some figures concerning
Yamal chronology and tree line dynamics to show somewhere in
France.
Attached are archived files contained some figures.
File MAP - the map of region of research. Red dots - subfossil
wood sites, green marks - recent northern border of larch along
river valleys.
File FIGURES - in Excel format, contains several figures.
Sheet "Values-10" - data on northernmost position of trees and
number of trees dated for corresponding year (decadal step)
Sheet "Treeline" - dynamics of treeline in Yamal during last 7000
years reconstructed using about 1000 subfossil wood remains.
Recent treeline position is about 6734.
One year ago we supposed (C-14 data, Hantemirov, Shiyatov
1999) that significant drop of treeline (the transition from
"middle" to "late" Holocene) was about 1700-1600 AD. According
new data it was earlier (about 2550 BC). May be it is because
of lack of data from region northward of 68N (only 25
datings)?
Sheet "Treeline and Nu" - treeline dynamics and number of dated
trees. May be number of trees reflects the long scale climate
fluctuations as well.
Sheet "2600-all" - for last 4600 years: treeline dynamics,
number of trees, 11 most cold summers for last 7000 years
(according our version of reconstruction), most expressed
frosts in July (reconstructed using junipers from Polar Urals,
see file PATHOL, frost in 1626 BC - based on subfossil larch -
you can put away it), summer temperatures reconstruction
smoothed with 20- and 100-year filters (our version of
reconstruction).
Sheet "Values-2" - values for preceding figures, in 2-years
step.
Sheet "Yam-Ur-fig" - comparing of treeline data for Yamal and
Polar Urals upper treeline dynamics (data by S.G.Shiyatov)
Sheet "Yamal-Ural" - values for preceding figure, in 2-years
step.
Sheet "Treeline-std" - treeline dynamics and 50-year standard
deviations of summer temperatures (our version of
reconstruction). This figure shows surprising high negative
correlation. However may be both of them just reflect long
scale climate fluctuations?
Sheet "Std" - 50-year standard deviations of summer
temperatures (our version of reconstruction) .
File PATHOL - in Excel format, contains data and figure on
pathological structures in tree rings of Siberian juniper
(Juniperus sibirica Burgsd.). According our data (Hantemirov et
al., 2000) the presence of frost rings provides evidence for
frosts that occurred in late June or first days of July (frost
rings in earlywood) and in the first half of July (frost rings in
late wood). Long term and pronounced temperature drop in the
middle of very warm period in the second half of July is the
factor responsible for wood density fluctuations (false rings).
Please let me know when you receive this. Some time large
messages get lost.
P.S. We (Eugene Vaganov, Stepan Shiyatov, Leonid Agafonov and I)
will be in Birmensdorf from 23 till 29 October. Are you going to
Switzerland after your meeting? We would be happy to see you
there.
Best regards,
Rashit M. Hantemirov                          
Lab. of Dendrochronology
Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology
8 Marta St., 202
Ekaterinburg, 620144, Russia
e-mail: rashit@ipae.uran.ru
Fax: +7 (3432) 29 41 61; phone: +7 (3432) 29 40 92
Attachment Converted: "c:\eudora\attach\Map.zip"
Attachment Converted: "c:\eudora\attach\Figures1.zip"
Attachment Converted: "c:\eudora\attach\Pathol.zip"