04/28/2016 07:55 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (user@domain.com; @manuelatobiasm)  
Good Thursday morning, Illinois. The hearing inside U.S. District Judge Thomas Durkin's courtroom was like nothing many longtime observers had seen. It had real-life pathos, incredible pain --old and new -- and the public shunning of Dennis Hastert former U.S. House Speaker. 
In one room, sat politicians whose paths crossed in multiple ways. A victim, Scott Cross, revealed himself to be the brother of former Illinois House Minority Leader Tom Cross. Tom Cross stepped down from that post in 2013 and state Rep. Jim Durkin took over. Durkin's brother? The judge handing down the sentence. 
Meantime, Hastert was long known to be a mentor of Tom Cross, among the loudest voices backing Cross' 2003 bid to become House Minority Leader. 
In the end, was 15 months enough? The Twitterverse and other social media blew up with complaints that Hastert escaped too easily. How could someone who admitted, reluctantly, to abusing at least five boys get 15 months, yet former Gov. Rod Blagojevich was sentenced to 14 years in prison? The Sun-Times' Editorial today says Hastert's sentence equates to 90 days for each boy Hastert abused. 
In court, Durkin explained that if Hastert had been charged with child molestation, he'd face a far steeper sentence. But that statute had run and Durkin repeatedly made clear that at least part of Hastert's punishment was losing his good name. That much is true. 
About that statute: Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan announced she would work with the Illinois Coalition Against Sexual Assault to remove the current statute of limitations for sexual assault crimes against children.  "Illinois law should allow children who have been victims of sexual assault and abuse the time to come forward and report their crimes. Survivors of sexual assault crimes during their childhood should be afforded the time it takes to process their assault and come forward to report their crimes to authorities," Madigan said in a statement. 
There was so much Hastert news this morning, we boiled down some of the highlights for readers. Let's begin with this question: 
WERE THERE MORE VICTIMS? From our story in POLITICO: "In a recent phone interview, Scott Cross told Politico he personally knew there were more accusers. 'I can tell you, there are nine victims, not five,' he said. 'I know, I've confirmed there are nine.' ... On Hastert, Cross said, 'He has his bed to lie in. His time will come; the maker's got his number." <<link>> 
THE SENTENCING HEARING  
Sun-Times lead: "Broken, guilty and struggling to stand before a federal judge, the man once called 'Mr. Speaker' just couldn't say the words. So U.S. District Judge Thomas Durkin finally put him in a corner Wednesday, forcing a quibbling and reluctant Dennis Hastert to clearly admit to the world he sexually abused students at Yorkville High School - including the brother of a political prot&eacute;g&eacute; - long before he became one of the most powerful politicians in the country." <<link>> 
Tribune lead: "In his 2004 memoir, former U.S. House Speaker Dennis Hastert claimed he was never a good liar. 'Maybe I wasn't smart enough,' Hastert wrote. 'I could never get away with it, so I made up my mind as a kid to tell the truth and pay the consequences.' It took nearly 40 years, but in a packed Chicago courtroom on Wednesday, Hastert finally, reluctantly, admitted to his dark past." <<link>> 
AP LEAD: "Dennis Hastert, the Republican who for eight years presided over the House and was second in the line of succession to the presidency, was sentenced Wednesday to more than a year in prison in a hush-money case that revealed accusations he sexually abused teenagers while coaching high school wrestling. The case makes the former speaker one of the highest-ranking American politicians ever sentenced to prison ... U.S. District Judge Thomas M. Durkin said: 'Nothing is more stunning than to have the words 'serial child molester' and 'speaker of the House' in the same sentence." <<link>> 
MEGA OOPS -- "WGN, Crain's rush to get Hastert sentence all wrong," by Robert Feder: "In the rush to be first, they got it wrong. Way wrong. Well before Judge Thomas M. Durkin handed down a 15-month prison sentence to Dennis Hastert, multiple Chicago media outlets broadcast and posted inaccurate reports Wednesday that the former U.S. House speaker would serve no jail time. The error apparently occurred when some reporters misunderstood Durkin's reference early in his remarks to two years of 'supervised release' for Hastert after his prison term for paying hush money to cover up sexual abuse from decades ago. 
Several television stations seemed initially confused, but none compounded the mistake as aggressively as WGN-Channel 9. For close to an hour, the Tribune Media station's midday news anchors, Steve Sanders and Dina Bair, discussed, dissected and disparaged the 'no jail time' angle with in-studio news analyst Paul Lisnek, an attorney. Lisnek repeatedly called it 'the luckiest day of Hastert's life' for avoiding prison." <<link>> 
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Providing 90 percent of Illinois' carbon-free electricity, nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals. Illinois' nuclear energy fleet supports approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contributes nearly $9 billion to the state's economy. Learn more at NuclearMatters.com. ** 
EXPRESSIONS OF DISGUST  
Sun-Times Edit Board: "Dennis Hastert caught a break he did not deserve. Federal Judge Thomas M. Durkin on Monday sentenced Hastert, once among the most powerful elected officials in the nation, to a mere 90 days in prison - if you do the math - for each of the five boys he is alleged to have sexually abused. Durkin could have sent Hastert away for as long as five years for the technical banking crimes to which he had pleaded guilty. Given the shameful way Hastert on Monday continued to deflect full responsibility for his past actions, we don't understand why Durkin did not." <<link>> 
Tribune's Edit Board: "Every crime is different, and so is every punishment. Hastert may outlive his 15-month incarceration, if that's what he ends up serving. Durkin said he wasn't intending to deliver a death sentence. The enduring impact is that the truth has been revealed. And for as long as the name Dennis Hastert is recalled, the man once respected as a leader will be known as a criminal, a scoundrel, a child molester." <<link>> ( "Transcript of Dennis Hastert, witnesses' statements in court" by The Chicago Tribune: <<link>> 
'STUNNINGLY HYPOCRITICAL' -- "Dennis Hastert's stunningly hypocritical 1998 speech about impeaching Bill Clinton," by The Washington Post's Philip Bump: "There's an enormous amount of tragedy surrounding revelations that former House speaker J. Dennis Hastert (R-Ill.) sexually abused a number of young men whom he coached during his time as a high school teacher and wrestling instructor. But there's also an enormous amount of hypocrisy, as the public words of a public man are seen in a new light after his past conduct was revealed." <<link>> 
"Dennis Hastert is a thief of innocence, the face of evil," Chicago Tribune's John Kass: <<link>>  
'REVEALED AS MONSTER' -- by Chicago Tribune's Rex Huppke: "There was one word in Dennis Hastert's sentencing hearing that mattered above all others: Yes. ... People in the courtroom saw a monster, now old and frail, admitting he is a monster." <<link>> 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
VICTIM'S SHOW OF COURAGE 
A NEW HOMETOWN HERO -- "Brown: A brave man steps up against hometown hero," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mark Brown: "Looking at it objectively, I suppose the ultimate in courtroom courage is the bystander witness who testifies against an accused murderer, knowing it could mean spending the rest of his life looking over his shoulder. Just the same, it's hard to imagine any of them being any braver than Scott Cross ... Cross, the brother of former Illinois House Republican Leader Tom Cross, could have easily saved himself the embarrassment and added pain of going public. He was under no legal compulsion to come forward to disclose what he had long considered his 'darkest secret.' Instead, he
forthrightly told how Hastert, whose state wrestling title for Yorkville had made him a small-town mega-hero long before he went to Congress, took advantage of him in the locker room." <<link>> 
PERSONAL TORMENT -- "Victim confronts Hastert in court after months of angst about whether to come forward," by Chicago Tribune's Christy Gutowski , Jason Meisner and Jeff Coen: "In the months that followed the scandalous federal indictment of his famous high school wrestling coach, Scott Cross has struggled through sleepless nights with anger, guilt, shame and fear. He wondered if coming forward publicly to say Dennis Hastert molested him nearly four decades ago when Cross was a Yorkville High School senior would make a difference. Would it encourage other survivors of childhood sexual abuse to find their voice? Would speaking out persuade the judge to give Hastert a harsher sentence? He
hoped so." <<link>> 
MORE FALLOUT 
'SERIAL CHILD MOLESTER' KEEPS ONE PENSION, LOSES OTHER -- "Hastert loses one Illinois pension, keeps another after sentencing," by Reuters' Dave McKinney: "Illinois stripped former U.S. House of Representatives Speaker Dennis Hastert of his teacher's pension on Wednesday, but his sentencing for a federal financial crime linked to past sex abuse will not cost him a second, more lucrative ... $28,025 annual pension from his six years as a member of the Illinois House of Representatives ... because the crime to which Hastert admitted happened ... more than two decades after his departure from the Illinois statehouse, said Timothy Blair, executive secretary for the state General Assembly
Retirement System ... 'Obviously, it couldn't be related to his role as an elected official here.' As a legislator, Hastert contributed $19,805 to his legislative pension and has received $420,524, Blair's agency disclosed." <<link>> 
NO MORE HALL OF FAME -- "Dennis Hastert may be removed from Wrestling Hall of Fame," by The Beacon News' Denise Crosby: "The National Wrestling Hall of Fame Ethics Committee was scheduled to meet and decide whether he should be removed from the Hall of Fame ... That recommendation will then go to the Hall of Fame's National Board of Governors, which will vote on whether to take Hastert's name from the prestigious list that, among other notables, includes presidents George Washington, Theodore Roosevelt and Abraham Lincoln and actor Kirk Douglas." <<link>> 
OTHER NEWS  
RAUNER FINDS 'OPTIMISM' IN HIS OWN POCKET -- "Rauner says he'll consider paying for special session to reach budget agreement," by State Journal-Register's Drew Zimmerman: "Gov. Bruce Rauner said Wednesday that if a bipartisan budget agreement can't be reached by the end of May, he'd be willing to pay for a special legislative session out of his own pocket to continue negotiations ... the Republican governor said he remains cautiously optimistic that he can reach a 'grand compromise' with lawmakers in negotiating a budget for the 2016 and 2017 fiscal years by the end of the spring session. 'We should not let this go past May. I'm seeing more excitement and more optimism between the
rank-and-file (lawmakers) who are saying that this has gone on too long,' Rauner said. 'Everyone is going to have to come off their hardest positions and come up with some middle ground, and I'm hearing that on a level I've never heard before, so that makes me optimistic.'" <<link>> 
ONE WAY TO AVOID STRIKE: END SCHOOL -- "CPS Is Spreading Rumors Of School Ending Early To Deter Strike, Union Says," by DNAinfo's Ted Cox: "The Chicago Teachers Union charged that rumors circulating that Chicago Public Schools might end the school year early likely are coming from the school district itself - despite official denials. The union said that CPS was engaging in a disinformation campaign to create chaos and discourage a strike next month. 'They are spreading this rumor to avoid a possible May strike,' union spokeswoman Stephanie Gadlin said Tuesday. 'Because if you have employees thinking they will lose money from a 'shortened' school year ... they may be thinking this is the
best way to divert and have members balk at walking.'" <<link>> 
WHO'S GIVING TO RAHM? -- "Rahm Emanuel Donors Were Far Richer And Whiter Than Chicago: Study," by International Business Times' David Sirota: "According to the report by the left-leaning group Demos, roughly 80 percent of Emanuel's total cash haul came from donors earning more than $100,000 a year, and roughly 94 percent came from white donors. People of color - who comprise nearly two-thirds of Chicago's population - represented just 5 percent of Emanuel's donors." <<link>> 
"Chicago to start testing water in some schools for toxic lead," - Chicago Tribune <<link>> 
HOW OUR SENATORS RANK -- "The Most (And Least) Popular Senators In America - Morning Consult:  
Mark Kirk: Approval 39% disapproval 33% 
Dick Durbin: Approval 43 % disapproval 36% <<link>> 
GO AGAINST MADIGAN? BAD FOR BUSINESS -- "Bitter Ken Dunkin fight comes back to haunt consultant," by Crain's Greg Hinz: "A political consultant who has played a prominent role in the Springfield battle between Gov. Bruce Rauner and Illinois House Speaker Michael Madigan has abruptly lost a job promoting a candidate for a huge food concession at Midway International Airport in Madigan's Southwest Side district ... multiple inside sources report that Chicago-based Resolute Consulting, a firm headed by Greg Goldner, recently was dropped from its position as a media and marketing advisor to SSP America. SSP is the lead company in a venture that's expected to soon land a roughly $250 million
deal selling food and retail items at the airport. But the deal has not yet closed, and could have problems with the city if it attracts political fire. SSP dropped Goldner 'because they saw him as a liability,' says one source familiar with the matter who asked not to be named. 'SSP did not want to create any trouble now.'" <<link>> 
STATE STREET PROPERTIES OPENING UP -- "Feds move to sell State Street buildings," by Crain's Alby Gallun: "Developers could finally get a crack at four vacant government-owned buildings on the State Street shopping strip, but they have to wait at the back of the line. The federal government has decided to dispose of 202, 212, 214 and 220 S. State in the Loop after spending more than a decade trying to figure out what to do with them. The buildings, in a national historic district, have sat empty amid a Loop renaissance that has brought shoppers, tourists and residents to the neighborhood, boosting property values and attracting new hotels, retailers and developers." 
<<link>> 
ZIPLINING, IN COOK COUNTY! -- "Zip lines coming to Cook County forest preserve - but Preckwinkle won't be riding," by Chicago Tribune's Kim Janssen: "A contemplative walk in the woods is all well and good, but if you've ever wanted to hurtle past a squirrel's front door, 40 feet above the forest floor, like a latter-day Tarzan, a new business coming to a Cook County forest preserve aims to help you out ... Being strapped to a zip line 'doesn't require a lot of skill' added Randall, who said he has ridden zip lines at other locations.Still, he said, Cook County Board President Toni Preckwinkle will not be trying the ride out for herself at the grand opening. 'I asked her ...She's not
interested." <<link>> 
TRUMP STEAMROLLING -- "Trump passes Romney's popular vote total, likely to break GOP record," POLITICO <<link>> 
WHERE'S RAHM? At Ariel Community Academy in the morning and in evening joins Chicago Park District Jr. Bears players to walk the NFL Draft Red Carpet. 
WHERE'S RAUNER? In the afternoon, attending the University of Illinois' Entrepreneurship Forum in Urbana. 
TODAY's EVENTS Courtesy of IntelligentEvent @Chi_Intellevent  
9th Annual Governmental Forum featuring U.S. Attorney Zachary Fardon - Elmhurst College - Zachary T. Fardon served as a federal prosecutor for nearly a decade before entering private law practice and then returning to government service as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. He began serving as the U.S. Attorney in Chicago on October 23, 2013. 
"There They Go Again" - Political Debates: Do They Matter? - Institute of Politics - Journalist Jeff Greenfield explores the impact of presidential debates. He'll explain why incumbent presidents seem to have so much trouble with the first debate (Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush, Barack Obama) and see what in this year's primary debates have mattered most. 
PLUS: 
At 11 a.m. Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, the Co-Founder of Americans for Responsible Solutions, will join Illinois leaders to announce a new statewide effort, the "Illinois Gun Violence Prevention Coalition," to urge the state's leaders to support a new proposal, the Gun Dealer Licensing Act, which aims to slow the flow of illegal gun trafficking in Illinois by giving Illinois' authorities and law enforcement the tools to encourage better business practices among federally licensed gun dealers and hold corrupt dealers accountable. Where: Jesse White Community Center & Fieldhouse 412 W. Chicago Ave. 
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Some of America's existing nuclear energy plants face early closure due to current economic and policy conditions. Providing more than 62% of America's carbon-free electricity, existing, state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals.
In Illinois, nuclear energy plants provide 48 percent of the state's electricity and 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity. The existing nuclear energy plants in Illinois also support approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contribute $9 billion to the state's economy.
If we want to keep Illinois working, we need policies that will keep Illinois' state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants working for all of us. Join us at NuclearMatters.com. ** 
FOR MORE political and policy news from POLITICO Illinois, visit: <<link>> 
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
<<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 
Flint Crisis Could Happen in Cities Across America: Flint's water crisis began with a decision to save public funds. With the need to tighten budgets, have mayors felt forced to make cost-saving decisions that could lead to a threat in public safety or health? Mayors tell POLITICO Magazine that aging bridges, roads, and water pipes are some of their most-pressing issues in our quarterly Mayors' Survey, part of the Magazine's award-winning "What Works "series. Read More <<link>> 
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
