Here is an EXCELLENT editorial by a CCHR guy in
Arizona.
We need to back him up.
Send a letter either strongly agreeing with his
viewpoint or forwarding any of our usual true lines:
-no science to psychiatry
-dangers of drugs
-TeenScreen is just a drug-funded fraud
etc.
Send your letter by clicking on
<<link>>
And report compliance by email.
Thank you!
Doyle
ARTICLE:
<<link>>
ml
The Arizona Republic
Psychiatric screening of kids is a real threat
Mar. 25, 2006 12:00 AM
First, I want to thank The Republic for devoting space
to the critical issue of the psychiatric drugging of
our children.
But in its March 15 editorial "All that glitters is
not good policy," The Republic commits one cardinal
editorial sin: it believes its own story.
The Republic ignores the fact that the Citizens
Commission on Human Rights' co-founder was eminent
psychiatrist Dr. Thomas Szasz, professor emeritus of
psychiatry at New York State University.
In 1969, Szasz and a minister from the Church of
Scientology heard about an involuntary psychiatric
patient being given shock treatments and heavy doses
of psychiatric drugs. Why? Because psychiatrists could
not understand him and assumed he was crazy. The man
actually spoke a European dialect that Szasz himself
spoke. The man was quickly rescued. Thus began the
years-long investigation and exposure of psychiatric
violations of human rights.
Believe me, if there is any group that is well
represented at the Legislature it is the mental-health
industry. Ask anyone.
And, since the editorial talks about affiliations,
look at the one between the Mental Heath Association
of Arizona and its parent, the National Mental Health
Association which, in its 2001 annual report, lists
nearly $2 million from pharmaceutical contributions.
The "chemical imbalance" theory pushed by psychiatry
as justification for their wholesale drugging has no
science in it. In fact, the president of the American
Psychiatric Association admitted last year that "we
(psychiatry) do not have a clean-cut lab test" to
determine a chemical imbalance.
Senate Bill 1414 was drafted to protect parental
rights against an Orwellian federal plan to screen all
healthy American schoolchildren for mental illness,
using programs like TeenScreen currently in Arizona
schools (see www.teenscreentruth.com ).
The psychiatric slippery slope begins with screening.
Strong evidence suggests that the intended treatment
is psychiatric drugging. Parents should know what may
lie ahead for their child before consenting to any
screening.
The Food and Drug Administration's Web site has
information on the "Black Box" suicide warnings for
these antidepressant and ADHD drugs.
Psychiatry's intent is to expand their patient base
through mental- health screening. That is why
legislation like SB 1414 (now SB 1324) and SB 1477
continue to receive support in the legislatures of
numerous states and why CCHR and other like-minded
groups will be around until psychiatric reform is a
fact. - Richard Haworth, Phoenix
The writer is with the Citizens Commission on Human
Rights, Phoenix Chapter (cchr.org).
