Dear CLAs/LAs
As you all know, in my Victoria follow-up e-mail of 2 August I presented a
summary of the agreement we reached in Victoria on a common use of
terminology to express degree of likelihood in the TAR. At that time the
word or term to be used for the central box of 33 to 66% had not been agreed
and the word "inconclusive" was proposed for that category. Since that time
there has been a lengthy discussion, including Working Groups II and III,
regarding the best word to be used in this category. To cut a long story
short the term we would now like you to use for this middle category is
"medium likelihood". I am sorry I have not been able to canvas this around
all of you but from the discussions this term was agreed by all to be the
best compromise. In particular, it clearly maintains the scale as one of
degrees of likelihood, whereas inconclusive could be confused as to whether
a degree of likelihood was being expressed or whether there was insufficient
information to conclude a likelihood. I attach a table showing what should
now be the final scale.
During the discussions it became clear that in addition to making likelihood
statements it is sometimes more appropriate to express statements in terms
of a degree of confidence, and indeed several chapters use this terminology.
As you know the Uncertainties Guidance paper by Richard Moss and Steve
Schneider recommends a scale of confidence from Very Low to Very High
confidence. WGII in particular are using this scale and so I would ask that,
if you choose to express things in terms of a level of confidence, that you
use the terms as they are laid down in the guidance paper. This in no way
affects the use of the likelihood scale where this is more appropriate. For
example, if we are highly uncertain how well a model handles a particular
process, we may have "very low confidence" in a model result which is highly
dependent on this process. If we have no other corroborating evidence we may
therefore conclude that there is insufficient information to assign a
likelihood in this case. By following the guidance paper when expressing a
level of confidence we will hopefully improve the consistency between the
two reports. Incidentally, if there are instances in the WGII report where
they are able express degrees of likelihood they are going to try and use
our scale. 
Thirdly, there has been a lot of discussion about the impression which the
likelihood scale, if taken out of context, could give for low likelihood,
high consequence events, such as a disintegration of the WAIS or a shutdown
of the THC in the next 100years. Please bear in mind that policymakers must
balance likelihood and consequence in deciding whether or not to take
action. Therefore please take extra care when considering text for these
types of issues as simply expressing them as "extremely unlikely" does not
give the full picture. For example, you could say an aircraft was "extremely
unlikely" to crash on its next flight but if there was a 1% chance I would
not fly on it. While it is a true statement the right balance is only
achieved when the consequence is also brought in to put the risk in context.
I apologise for this late change to our scale but I hope you all agree that
it is an improvement. If anything is not clear about any of the above please
do not hesitate to contact me.
Best regards
Dave
<<Agreed terminology2.doc>> 
