PLEASE find a GOOD WRITTEN, NONTECHNICAL description of HOW most MODERN, common CYBER ATTACKS WORK.
IF you are not a computer security expert, this is a MUST-READ.
From MIT Technology Review, also available at <<link>> , FYI,David
Ken Westin
February 10, 2015
Encryption Wouldn’t Have Stopped Anthem’s Data Breach
To prevent breaches companies must strictly control which employees can access sensitive data.  
The recent data breach at 
health insurer Anthem saw criminals access the personal details and 
Social Security numbers of more than 80 million people—the biggest 
health-care data theft to date. Medical and payment data was not 
compromised, but the names, addresses, birthdays, and Social Security 
numbers accessed can be used by criminals to commit various types of 
fraud.Many people have been surprised to hear that this sensitive data was 
not encrypted and that the federal mandate for securing health-related 
data, HIPAA, does not require it to be. In fact, HIPAA only “strongly 
encourages” encryption. Organizations that choose not to use encryption 
are supposed to document the reasons why not and implement an 
“equivalent alternative measure if reasonable and appropriate.” The 
vagueness of this requirement is the crux of class action and other 
lawsuits being filed against Anthem.But even if Anthem had used encryption, the data could have still 
have been compromised. Encryption is just one part of the arsenal that 
organizations need to deploy to secure sensitive data. Encryption is 
great for securing data in transit and at rest, but if the credentials 
and keys are compromised it does little to protect the data.The bigger issue in many breaches is that organizations haven’t 
properly implemented data access security controls. They need to have 
safeguards in place in case attackers can bypass perimeter defenses and 
compromise administrator level credentials.This is precisely what happened to Anthem, which says its attackers gained access to at least five sets of employee credentials.It’s ridiculously easy for cybercriminals to find the information 
they need to compromise almost any organization. A quick look at Anthem 
job postings and LinkedIn profiles was enough for me to identify the 
software Anthem uses for its data warehouse.From there, I could easily identify more than 100 people, such as 
system architects and database administrators, who would have privileged
access to the data warehouse storing tens of millions of sensitive 
personal records. This was probably the first thing Anthem’s attackers 
researched before conducting a phishing campaign to distribute the 
malware used to harvest employee credentials.An attacker who can compromise a system via the credentials of a user
with administrator-level access to the data warehouse can easily steal 
more credentials, find monetizable information, and exfiltrate 
unencrypted data.So what should organizations do to secure sensitive customer data? 
Sophisticated attackers with enough time and resources can get into any
organization eventually. Cybercriminals are fully aware of the constant
trade-offs that organizations make to balance security with operational
efficiency, and they’ve repeatedly demonstrated that they’re fully 
capable of exploiting even tiny security weaknesses.Anthem won’t be the last health-care organization to suffer a massive
breach. Just as with retail, many organization will be targeted, since 
security weaknesses are often shared across an entire industry. 
Health-care organizations need to reëvaluate their security practices in
light of the Anthem breach to ensure that they have appropriate 
security controls in place to protect their networks.Ken Westin is a senior security analyst specializing in cybercrime and threat intelligence for computer security company Tripwire Inc.
Tagged:
Computing,           Mobile,           cybersecurity,           personal data,           Encryption
