Click here to view this email online.
"The Exchange" Seattle
EVENT DATE: 
October 7-8, 2014
LOCATION:
The Arctic Club Seattle
700 3rd Avenue
Seattle, WA 98104
Because of your status in the legal community you have been chosen to receive this complimentary invitation.
Use Code EM100 to register for Free -- $299 Value.(No vendors or service providers permitted unless sponsoring.)
» REGISTER NOW
Dear Colleague,
Today's General Counsel Institute is pleased to invite you to "The Exchange" Seattle: The Leading Interactive Corporate e-Discovery Program Series.
As In-house Counsel, you know litigation costs can spiral out of control.  The Exchange conference allows you the unprecedented opportunity to explore ways of containing and controlling those costs.  The conference's unique interactive format and roundtable sessions leave you with a true understanding of the major e-Discovery issues. 
Our expert moderators will help you find solutions to the current challenges facing your organization. It is unlike any other conference you have ever attended. There are no PowerPoint presentations, "Death by PowerPoint...", just real discussions, following the agenda as an outline, where a document is created from the pain points and solutions addressed that effect counsel and then emailed to all of the participants. There is a great amount of networking time built in as well! 
Whether you are In-House Counsel, law firm attorney, or one of the "hands-on" people at your company or firm, CEO, CTO, CFO, Litigation Support Manager, Leader of an Information Management or e-Discovery team, you will benefit from participating and we would be very pleased to see you there.
» AGENDA   |   » SPEAKERS   |   » FEEDBACK
LEAD MODERATORS
Niloy Ray
eDiscovery Counsel
Littler Mendelson
Robert Brownstone
Technology & eDiscovery Counsel, and Co-Chair, Electronic Information Management Group
Fenwick & West LLP
Kathy Owen 
Senior Counsel
DLA Piper
Michael J. Burg
Corporate Counsel
DISH Network L.L.C.
TGCI SPONSORS
» REGISTER NOW For FREE
Use code EM100 ($299 value)
CLE Accreditation: Today's General Counsel Institute is in the process of securing CLE accreditation.Please contact Neil Signore, Senior VP and Managing Director, TGCI, at  user@domain.com with any questions or in regard to sponsorship.  www.todaysgeneralcounsel.com/instituteYou are receiving this email because of your standing in the legal and business communities. CLICK HERE and we will immediately remove you from any future Today's General Counsel promotional emails.
Stay Connected:
Today's General Counsel
20 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606
