Another mention of the NSM from left wing/jewish sources. A rehash of the
FBI probe into our Comrades in the Military. There is many more in the U.S.
Military than they know.
<<link>>
Extremists in the Military
FBI Reports on Extremists in Military
*Intelligence Report*
Fall 2008
[image: military]
The U.S. military has struggled with the problem of right-wing extremists i=
n
the armed services for decades. A key worry is that racists may wreck moral=
e
and safety by sowing racial enmity within their units.
White supremacist leaders are making a concerted effort to recruit
active-duty soldiers and recent combat veterans of the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan, according to a new FBI report. The unclassified FBI
Intelligence Assessment, titled "White Supremacist Recruitment of Military
Personnel Since 9/11," bolsters the findings of a 2006 *Intelligence Report=
*
expos=E9 <<<link>>> that revea=
led
that alarming numbers of racist extremists were taking advantage of lowered
wartime recruiting standards to enlist in the armed services.
"Military experience is found throughout the white supremacist extremist
movement as a result of recruitment campaigns by extremist groups and
self-recruitment by veterans sympathetic to white supremacist causes," the
FBI report states. "Extremist leaders seek to recruit members with military
experience in order to exploit their discipline, knowledge of firearms,
explosives and tactical skills as well as [in the case of active duty
soldiers] their access to weapons and intelligence."
Based on analysis of FBI case files from October 2001 to May 2008, the
report identified 203 military personnel or veterans who were active member=
s
in white supremacist organizations during that period.
Although that number represents a miniscule percentage of the U.S. veteran
and active-duty populations, the report noted that "[t]he prestige which th=
e
extremist movement bestows upon members with military experience grants the=
m
the potential for influence beyond their numbers. Most extremist groups hav=
e
some members with military experience, and those with military experience
often hold positions of authority within the groups to which they belong."
The report detailed more than a dozen investigative findings and criminal
cases involving veterans and active duty personnel engaging in extremist
activity. For example:
- In May 2003, the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Division advised the
FBI of six active-duty soldiers at Fort Riley, Texas, who were affiliate=
d
with the Aryan Nations. One of the six was the neo-Nazi group's point of
contact in Kansas and sought to recruit members from within the military
- In September 2006, the leader of the Celtic Knights, a now-defunct
splinter faction of the Hammerskins in central Texas, planned to obtain
firearms and explosives from an active-duty Army soldier in Fort Hood,
Texas. The soldier, who served in Iraq in 2006 and 2007, was a member of=
the
National Alliance, a neo-Nazi group. He is now going through proceedings=
for
military discharge.
- *In October 2006, the National Socialist Movement, a major neo-Nazi
group, received a number of queries from active-duty Army and Marine
personnel stationed in Iraq and Afghanistan that expressed interest in
joining the organization and inquired about chapters located near domest=
ic
U.S. military bases.*
- In mid-2007, two Army privates in the 82nd Airborne Division at Fort
Bragg, N.C., received six-year prison sentences for attempting to sell b=
ody
armor and morphine to an undercover FBI agent they believed was involved=
in
the white supremacist movement.
"Looking ahead, current and former military personnel belonging to white
supremacist extremist organizations who experience frustration at the
inability of these organizations to achieve their goals may choose to found
new, more operationally minded and operationally capable groups," the repor=
t
concludes. "The military training veterans bring to the movement and their
potential to pass this training on to others can increase the ability of
lone offenders to carry out violence from the movement's fringes."
