<<link>>
stitialskip
*White supremacists shift tactics to attract middle Americans* By Marisol
Bello, USA TODAY
The white-power movement is changing its marketing strategy to broaden its
appeal.
The USA's largest neo-Nazi group is ditching its trademark brown Nazi
uniform with swastika armband for a more muted look in black fatigues.
In Pennsylvania, the Keystone State Skinheads is changing its name to
Keystone United to attract members.
The nation's largest white-power website, Stormfront, has a new feature tha=
t
lets members create social-networking pages. The site has had as many as
42,700 unique visitors in a 24-hour period this month, a steady rise since
it started in 1995.
Supremacist groups are on the rise as they market themselves to middle
America, according to leaders of the groups and organizations that monitor
them. They are fueled by the debate over illegal immigration and a
struggling economy.
"Many white supremacist groups are going more mainstream," says Jack Levin,
a Northeastern University criminologist who studies hate crime. "They are
eliminating the sheets and armbands. =85 The groups realize if they want to=
be
attractive to middle-class types, they need to look middle-class."
Levin estimates fewer than 50,000 people are members of white supremacist
groups, but he says their influence is growing with a more sophisticated
approach.
Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), which tracks them through news reports
and other sources. The number is up 48% since 2000.
The FBI knows of about 24 domestic terrorist groups. Spokesman Richard Kolk=
o
would not say how many are white supremacists.
Jeff Schoep, head of the National Socialist Movement, says the government
classifies his group as a domestic group of interest, not domestic
terrorists. The FBI would not comment.
Interest in the group "has really spiked up," says Schoep, who would not sa=
y
by how much.
"Historically, when times get tough in our nation, that's how movements lik=
e
ours gain a foothold," he says. "When the economy suffers, people are
looking for answers. =85 We are the answer for white people.
"And now this immigrant thing in the past couple of years has been the
biggest boon to us," Schoep says. "The immigration issue is the biggest
problem we're facing because it's changing the face of our country. We see
stuff in English and Spanish. =85 They are turning our country into a Third
World ghetto."
The National Socialist Movement is the largest neo-Nazi group in the USA,
according to the SPLC and the Anti-Defamation League, which works to fight
bigotry. The NSM has chapters in 38 states, its website says.
Mark Potok, director of the SPLC's Intelligence Project, says the debate
over immigration has led to a rise in hate groups.
In Pennsylvania, where the Hispanic population increased by 41% from 2000
through 2007, Keystone United has been busy.
Members distribute fliers calling on residents to fight crime they say is
committed by illegal immigrants, gangs and drug dealers. In September,
members joined a rally against illegal immigration in Shenandoah that was
organized after four white teens were arrested in connection with the
beating death of a Latino illegal immigrant.
"A lot of these small working-class towns are being invaded by different
types of people," says Douglas Myers, one of Keystone United's founders. He
says the group speaks out for the rights of whites being pushed aside by
newcomers.
"It appears they are tapping into and fanning the flames of mainstream
America's fear of immigrants," says Ann Van Dyke of the Pennsylvania Human
Relations Commission. "They are increasingly using the language of Main
Street, things like, 'We want safe communities to raise our children.' "
Myers says the group is organizing family-friendly activities, rejecting th=
e
violence that made skinheads notorious. For example, they plan gatherings i=
n
public libraries.
"It's not the footage from the '80s with people burning crosses. It's a ver=
y
healthy environment," Myers, 26, says.
The renewed activity includes a boom on the Internet, says Don Black,
creator of the Stormfront website. The site has 144,000 registered members.
"Many people in this country, even if they were upset with the country's
immigration policies, never felt that threatened until now," Black, 55,
says. "White people were the majority. That's rapidly changing."
Black says the candidacy of Barack Obama has raised his site's profile.
In the past year, members have posted 337 entries on Stormfront related to
Obama, ranging from whether an Obama victory will start a revolution among
whites to whether the candidate will take away gun rights.
Black's son, Derek, 19, was elected to the Palm Beach County, Fla.,
Republican committee in August. Local Republican leaders are trying to
unseat him after learning of his white supremacist ties.
Don Black, once a Ku Klux Klan leader in Alabama, says he's encouraged by
the enthusiasm he sees.
"We see a lot of people coming out of the woodwork," he says.
