05/05/2016 08:06 AM EDT
By Rachael Bade (user@domain.com or @RachaelMBade)
WARY HILL GOP BRACES FOR TRUMP. Tuesday night's primary - and the fallout of Ted Cruz and John Kasich withdrawing from the race thereafter - has really stirred the pot on Capitol Hill. A new swath of Hill Republicans is now endorsing the presumed nominee, though many maintain their distance. What's clear either way: They can't ignore Trump anymore. Jake Sherman and your Huddle author tag-team it: "Many of them are still in shock, and some of the chattiest of them won't answer their telephones. But slowly, Hill Republicans are coming to grips with a Donald Trump-driven Republican Party, and they are already strategizing how to navigate it.""There have been informal conversations between
figures in Trump's universe and top House Republicans, according to multiple sources with direct knowledge of the talks. Senior party officials don't expect the House GOP to fully embrace their party's nominee, but instead concentrate on Speaker Paul Ryan's (R-Wis.) agenda, which stands in sharp contrast to Trump's sometimes harsh policy platform. In the Senate, all five Republican leaders indicated Wednesday that they would support Trump as the eventual nominee. And on both sides of the Rotunda, members from various corners of the House and Senate Republican conferences began jumping aboard the Trump Train - including at least two who endorsed Trump for the first time in POLITICO
interviews Wednesday." <<link>>
EXCEPT FOR VULNERABLE GOP SENATORS, WHO ARE DUCKING HIM. John Bresnahan has the read on the few who won't ever, ever, touch him with a 10-foot pole: "At 11:30 a.m. on Wednesday morning, Sen. Rob Portman - facing a tough reelection battle against a popular former Democratic governor - strongly reaffirmed his support for John Kasich as the GOP presidential nominee. Twenty minutes later, news broke that Kasich was out of the race... For Portman and other Senate Republicans up for reelection in 2016, the clock has run out. There's no place left to hide on Trump....""With 24 GOP-held Senate seats up for grabs in November - including in swing states such as Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New Hampshire -
Trump is a wild card that Republicans have tried to avoid dealing with for months. They're still ducking the question, but they can't avoid the reality for long. These GOP senators will head into the general election with Trump on the top ticket, and Democrats using every chance they can to tie them to him." <<link>>
PRIME EXAMPLE? - McCain caught on tape: Trump damages my reelection hopes. Burgess and Seung Min scoop a recording of the Arizona Republican's worries expressed privately at a fundraiser: "[B]ehind closed doors at a fundraiser in Arizona last month, the Republican senator and two-time presidential hopeful offered a far more dire assessment to his supporters. 'If Donald Trump is at the top of the ticket, here in Arizona, with over 30 percent of the vote being the Hispanic vote, no doubt that this may be the race of my life,' McCain said, according to a recording of the event obtained by POLITICO. 'If you listen or watch Hispanic media in the state and in the country, you will see that it is
all anti-Trump. The Hispanic community is roused and angry in a way that I've never seen in 30 years.'" <<link>>
Also this: "Club for Growth backs off Trump threat." Burgess with more. "The Club for Growth, after warning Republican candidates that backing Donald Trump would cost them the group's support, is backing away from that stance now that the business mogul has effectively locked up the nomination." <<link>>
GOOD THURSDAY MORNING - It's MAY 5, 2016. This is Huddle, where the obvious theme of the day is the spillover from Tuesday knockout primary. The Hill is reeling, as you can see. What's your take? Email me here: user@domain.com, or send me a note on the twitters: @RachaelMBade
TODAY IN CONGRESS. More recess.
AROUND THE HILL. Not a whole lot, but at 12:30 p.m., Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid will talk SCOTUS vacancy and Donald Trump on a phone conference with reporters from Las Vegas.
"GRASSLEY: TRUMP WOULD NOMINATE 'RIGHT TYPE' TO COURT." Democrats have used comments by the Judiciary Chairman, which suggested that a President Trump SCOTUS nominee could be hard to predict, to argue Grassley should go ahead and move Garland now while he can. But the Des Moines Register's Brianne Pfannenstiel is reporting new comments on this front: Grassley thinks a Trump pick would be just fine: "U.S. Sen. Chuck Grassley said Wednesday he thinks Donald Trump, now the presumptive Republican nominee for president, would nominate the 'right type of people' to the U.S. Supreme Court." <<link>>
CAMPUS NEWS: "Johnny's Half Shell is moving to Adams Morgan." Time to search for a new Senate-side watering hole. Isaac Arnsdorf for POLITICO: "Johnny's Half Shell is leaving its spot near the Capitol after a decade as a favorite venue for congressional fundraisers. The iconic oyster bar and seafood restaurant will close on May 26 and reopen next month at 1819 Columbia Road NW, the current site of Cashion's Eat Place, owner Ann Cashion told POLITICO. While the restaurant did a famously brisk business with private dining, it struggled on weekends and lost out to an increasingly vibrant and competitive DC food scene.
"THE MYSTERY OF THE 302Bs. POLITICO budget guy Ben Weyl breaks down the mystery of the House Approps Committee's funding levels - and more importantly why they're not saying: "Typically, the House Appropriations Committee announces how it is divvying up its annual pile of cash among its 12 subcommittees in one fell swoop; that makes it clear relatively quickly which departments and agencies will face feast or famine. This year, the GOP-led committee is only announcing spending allocations for each bill as it is voted on - even though Republican subcommittee chairmen have at least some idea of how much money they have to work with. Democrats are crying foul, arguing it's part of an effort to
hide potentially painful spending cuts or simply to avoid angering conservatives in the midst of an intra-GOP budget fight.<<link>>
RIP - "Robert Bennett, Former Senator from Utah, Dies at 82." N.Y. Times obit by Adam Clymermay:"Former Senator Robert Bennett, a conservative Republican from Utah who played a central role in shaping the bank bailout legislation intended to limit the damage caused by the 2008 financial crisis, died Wednesday at age 82. Mr. Bennett died from complications of a stroke. He had also been suffering from pancreatic cancer, according to Tara Tanner, a spokeswoman who confirmed the death. He died in Arlington, Va. In his three terms in the Senate, Mr. Bennett was a staunch conservative who sometimes sought compromises on major issues like immigration, health care and the 2008 economic
downturn.""But those efforts, plus a long record for earmarking federal grants for his state, drove Tea Party Republicans to deny him a chance to run for a fourth term in May 2010. He finished third in state party convention votes, a result that, under Utah law, barred him from a primary election. Mr. Bennett left the convention in tears as delegates cheered and shouted, 'He's gone, he's gone.'" <<link>>
WEDNESDAY'S TRIVIA WINNER: Ziad Ojakli was the first to answer that Andrei Sakharov is the ally right next to the Russian ambassador's house, named after a famous soviet dissident and pushed through by former N.Y. state Sen. Al D'amato
TODAY'S TRIVIA: Comes from our runner up yesterday, Rob Placek: "In what state was the first gubernatorial election in which both major party nominees were women? Also name the year and the eventual governor." Email me: user@domain.com
GET HUDDLE emailed to your Blackberry, iPhone or other mobile device each morning. Just enter your email address where it says "Sign Up." <<link>>
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
