Click here to view the web version.
UPCOMING EVENTS
From Captivity to Leadership 
Guest Speaker Major General Giora Romm (ret.)
Tuesday, October 7 | 7:30 p.m. | Plotkin Chapel
We are very pleased to host Special Guest Speaker Major General Giora Romm (ret.), who has had a distinguished career and fascinating life:
• Director General of the Civil Aeronautics Authority in Israel
• Former Israeli Defense Forces Deputy Commander of the Israeli Air Force
• Safeguarded Ben Gurion Airport during Operation Protective Edge 
• Former POW held captive in Egypt 
Major General Giora Romm is also author of Solitary: The Crash, Captivity and Comeback of an Ace Fighter Pilot. This event is presented by Stephen Wise Temple, Consulate General of Israel, Los Angeles and the Anti-Defamation League (ADL). There is no charge for this event. 
Contact
E-Tickets Have Been Sent for Yom Kippur!
By now, if you have completed your High Holy Days ticket request via our Wise Connect online system, you should have received your Yom Kippur tickets by e-mail. If, for some reason, you do not receive your e-tickets, please check your spam filter, and if you still did not receive an e-mail from user@domain.com, please contact us. There is still time to request your tickets if you haven't already. Please log in to Wise Connect with the username and password we provided you or call 310.889.2394 and we can help you over the phone. All of us from here at the Temple wish you a meaningful fast and may you be inscribed in the Book of Life in the New Year 5775. 
Note: In keeping with Yom Kippur, there will not be a nosh this Friday, October 3. 
Info | Contact
Streaming High Holy Days Services Online
While we hope that every member of our congregation is able to join us in person for our High Holy Days services, we also know this is not the reality – whether due to illness or other unforeseen circumstances. If you are unable to be here, we want to offer you an opportunity to still participate in our High Holy Days services streamed on the Internet for your convenience. Visit WiseLA.org/live to view our services streamed live, or click on the Info button below at the start of the desired service. Click here to view the service times for the Sanctuary at Stephen Wise Temple.
Info | Contact
Wise School Open House
Wedesday, October 15 | 9 a.m. | Stephen Wise Temple
Do you know someone who might be interested in Wise School? Our first Open House is October 15th. Let us introduce your friends to the wonderful educational and child development opportunities here at Wise School. 
We need to spread the word: 
Working closely with our partners at the USC Rossier School of Education, our students create, discover, and build a love of learning through our wide variety of teaching methods. Our Early Childhood Center establishes a strong foundation of learning and curiosity for Kindergarten and beyond. 
Info | Contact
Wise Religious School: Inspiring the Next Generation of Jewish Learners
The Center for Youth Engagement’s (CYE) Religious School is where the paths to living and doing Judaism intersect in exciting, innovative, and creative ways. You will find in our community a deep commitment to experiential learning and innovative instruction using multiple teaching modalities and techniques. We are excited to announce the opening of our brand One-Day-A-Week Religious School program for students in grades 4-6.  We now offer four convenient options to engage in Jewish education making the Religious School experience easily accessible to all families. Each option comes with our personal guarantee that Religious School families will never incur the expense of costly private tutors. The CYE Religious School is open to all Wise families with children in Kindergarten-Grade 6. To learn more about Wise Religious School, contact Andrea Gardenhour CYE Director and Religious School Principal.
Info | Contact
Erev Sukkot Under the Stars
Wednesday, October 8 | 7 p.m. | Plaza
Come celebrate the beginning of Sukkot with your Wise community, Clergy, and the David Kates Band. Bring your own picnic dinner and enjoy the start of a beautiful week of celebration under the Sukkah.
Contact
The Center for Jewish Life of Stephen Wise Temple is pleased to partner with the Shalom Hartman Institute of North America for the Westside Collaborative Lecture Series. We have arranged for members of our congregation to register for this series at no cost. The series is called: Inside, Outside, In Between: Jewish Peoplehood Today. 
Rabbi Dr. Donniel Hartman
Sunday, November 2, 2014
At Sinai Temple
Dr. Yehuda Kurtzer
Sunday, December 14, 2014
At Temple Emanuel of Beverly Hills
Dr. Elana Stein Hain
Sunday, January 11, 2015
At Temple Isaiah
Dr. Micah Goodman
Sunday, February 8, 2015
At Stephen Wise Temple
Yossi Klein Halevi
Sunday, March 8, 2015
At B’nai David-Judea 
Rabbi Lauren Berkun
Sunday, April 19, 2015
At Beth Am
Register | Contact
MAZAL TOVS
Mazal tov to: 
Darcy Bachrach and Jeff Spector and families on their marriage
Donna and Cantor Nathan Lam and family on the birth of their grandson, Marcia Lam on the birth of her great-grandson, Alexis and Michael Lam on the birth of their son, Jenna and Joey Pitson on the birth of their nephew, Ro and Bill Handy on the birth of their great-nephew, Lyla and Olivia Pitson on the birth of their cousin, and to Max on the birth of his brother, Emmet Mason
Karen and Richard Mettel and family on the marriage of their daughter, and to Jennifer Myers and Jacob Rome on their marriage
We would like to hear about the simchas in your life. If you or someone you know has recently had a baby, wedding, engagement, or any other simcha, our Clergy and community would like to share in it with you. Click here to inform us or email user@domain.com.
CONDOLENCES 
Our Wise community extends our deepest sympathy and support to those who are mourning the loss of a loved one. 
Inna and David Effress and family on the loss of her grandfather, and to Raisa, Abe and Jake on the loss of their great-grandfather, Gersh (Tzvi) Teperman
TRIBUTES
We honor people through charitable giving. 
RABBIS’ DISCRETIONARY FUND:
IN HONOR OF:
the naming of her granddaughter Chloe, by Barbara Sampson
Jean Ball and Melvin Sapiro on their marriage
Stephanie Wissner and Christopher Mintle on their marriage
IN MEMORY OF:
Harriet Lloyd, by Roberta and Kenneth Lloyd
Eli Persky, by Michael Persky
CANTOR’S DISCRETIONARY FUND
IN HONOR OF:
the wonderful Rosh Hashanah Service, by Beverly Cohen
IN MEMORY OF:
Diane Cohen, by Edythe Lipen
Eli Persky, by Michael Persky
SAM DUBMAN SOVA FUND
IN HONOR OF:
Bea Dubman on her 95th birthday, by June and Murray Bass
SUMMER CAMP SCHOLARSHIP FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Charlotte Cohen, by Andrea and Ryan Drobnick and family
SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Miriam Ghalili, by Jesse Ghalili
YAHRZEIT FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Arthur Schneider, by Flora Schneider
Harry Chayt, by Jerry Otelsberg and family
Ada Williams, by Marilyn and David Williams
Tillie Handler, by Ardythe and Jasper Monroe
THANK YOU 
We appreciate our wonderful Nosh Volunteers and Greeters. Thank you for making Shabbat a welcoming experience for all! 
Norma Cooper
Susan Firestone
Peggy Wehrle
We regrettably left Jackie Leff off our list of volunteers who helped put together our New Member Welcome baskets last week. We thank Jackie for taking time out of her day to assemble and deliver our New Member baskets. 
Center for Jewish Life Volunteers
Ronni Epstein
Susan Firestone
Ira & Chana Green
Ginny Kahn
Sally Levine
Shelly Levy
Freda Moscowitz
Sheila Rosenberg
Barbara Sampson
Marilyn Schwadron
Lana Sternberg
Peggy Wehrle
Yom Kippur Services for Friday, October 3 - Saturday, October 4
Friday, October 3: Various times | Erev Yom Kippur Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule.
Saturday, October 4: Various times | Yom Kippur Day Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule.
Contact Clergy
Sukkot Festival Service for Thursday, October 9
Thursday, October 9: 10 a.m. | Sukkot Morning Service | Rabbi Ron Stern and Cantor Nathan Lam | Plotkin Chapel | Childcare available 
Shabbat Services for Friday, October 10 - Saturday, October 11
Friday, October 10: 6:15 p.m. | Shabbat Service | Rabbi Ron Stern and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Plotkin Chapel
Saturday, October 11: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan | Michael Shefrin and Cantorial Intern, Kyle Cotler | Hershenson Hall
Contact Clergy
Live Streaming for our Shabbat Service on the Web
If you or someone you know is home-bound, unable to travel to our campus, or if you are unable to attend services, visit WiseLA.org/Live to watch our Friday evening Shabbat Services. Streaming is available on all computers, as well as supported mobile devices, including iPhones and iPads. We look forward to sharing Shabbat with you – both in person and over the web!
SCHOOL CALENDARS
Early Childhood
Calendar | Contact
K-6
Calendar | Contact
Wise Parent Association
Calendar | Contact
CONNECT
Phone: 310.476.8561
Web: WiseLA.org
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Send us an Email
If your spouse or partner (or someone else you know) would like to be added to the WiseGuide weekly email list,
or if you wish to inform us about a lifecycle event, email user@domain.com.
G'mar Hatimah Tovah - May You Be Inscribed in the Book of Life
