Mike,
Been away in Japan the last week or so. Malcolm was there in a wheelchair
because of his ruptured achilles. We both mentioned the lack of evidence
for global scale change related to the MWE and LIA, but all the later
Japanese speakers kept saying the same old things.
As for the TAR Chap 2 it seems somewhat arbitrary divison to exclude the
tree-ring only reconstructions. Keith's reconstruction is of a different
character to other tree-ring work as it is as 'hemispheric in scale' as 
possible so is unlike any other tree-ring related work that is reported
upon.
If we go as is suggested then there would be two diagrams - one simpler
one with just Mann et al and Jones et al and in another section Briffa et
al. This might make it somewhat awkward for the reader trying to put them
into context. 
The most important bit of the proxy section is the general discussion of
'Was there an MWE and a LIA' drawing all the strands together. Keith and I
would be happy to look through any revisions of the section if there is
time.
One other thing, did you bring up the possibility of having a proxy-only
chapter ( albeit short) for the next assessment ?
On Venice I suggested to Peck that you and Keith give talks on the
reconstructions - frank and honest etc emphasising issues and I lead a
discussion with you both and the rest of those there where the issues
can be addressed ( ie I would like to get the views of other proxy types and 
the modellers/detectors there). I suggested to Peck that this was early
in the week as I have to leave on the Thursday to go to the last day of
a Working Group meeting of the Climate Change Detection group in Geneva
( a joint WMO Commission for Climatology/CLIVAR). I hope to report on the
main findings of the Venice meeting.
Another issue I would like to raise is availability of all the series
you use in your reconstructions. That old chestnut again !
How is life in Charlottesville ?  Do you ever bump into Michaels or is
always off giving skeptical talks ?
Tim Osborn is making great progress with his NERC grant and will be
looking
into dates soon for coming to see you.
Cheers
Phil
Prof. Phil Jones
Climatic Research Unit        Telephone +44 (0) 1603 592090 
School of Environmental Sciences    Fax +44 (0) 1603 507784 
University of East Anglia                      
Norwich                          Email    p.jones@uea.ac.uk 
NR4 7TJ
UK
