Open Letter to Members of the Party:
NSM Party Comrades,
I am addressing this publically, but it is directed at active Party members.
When I first joined the NSM I knew it would be something I would stick with
the rest of my life, it was not a club, a gang, or some fleeting thrill for
the moment, it was a commitment to a way of life, and a direct link to many
of our Forefathers who fought for Blood and Soil. Fellow Party members, most
of you have taken the Oath of Loyalty to the Party, and those that have not
yet taken your Oath, as read in the membership handbook, are expected to do
so as soon as possible. It is a commitment, and proves your serious about
helping us to bring about changes in our Nation. It also creates a
Solidarity, and Kinship with your fellow Brothers and Sisters in our
struggle.
In this modern day materialistic Society to some an Oath, or pledge of
Loyalty means nothing. For those of us that live by the Old Ways, breaking
an Oath defiles your Honor, and leaves you with nothing but an empty shell
that once held your life force. If a man can not stay true to his Oath, then
he is no man but rather a castrated maggot devoid of any trace of purity or
an Aryan Soul. Your Oath also holds you to the battlefield, until this fight
for our Race and Nation has been won. I often reflect about so-called
Comrades that have abandoned their Oaths to the Party, and I wonder how they
can live with themselves, as the rest of us face such a large scale enemy in
Zog, and they give up without a fight, or before the fight is finished. We
at Party HQ always hear a multitude of excuses from the Oath breakers,
sometimes their reasons are based in serious issues (still there is no
reason serious enough to break your Oath), but more often than not it is
trivial matters, such as personal problems with another member, so and so
had their feelings hurt, or this or that person was not thanked enough for
their work, or did not get promoted, or did not like a certain rule in the
chain of command, or Religion, or insert excuse here 