*FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE*
*The NSM Software Development Team Warns of Spyware in Illegally Downloaded
Copies of Zogs Nightmare Games I & II*
**
22.OCTOBER.2007 - Minneapolis, MN
Recently, the NSM's Software Development Team (NSMSDT) was alerted to a few
sites offering downloads of the "Zogs' Nightmare" series, illegally.   The
NSMSDT has analyzed both Zogs' Nightmare I & II and found the digital
signature has been altered.
First and foremost, the Zogs' Nightmare series is only available through the
NSM Store, NSM88 Records and exclusive retailers.   Downloadable versions of
Zogs' Nightmare will never be offered by the NSM or any of its retailers
save the Zogs' Nightmare demo.
Our software engineers are still analyzing the various versions of the
illegal downloadable files found online and so far have found a possible
computer and internet protocol address verifier, or CIPAV that has been
injected & bundled with the original source files.  This is a very small
little file that adheres to your computer at the kernel level hiding it
effectively from anti-virus and anti-spyware defense.  When players start
the illegally downloaded versions of Zogs' Nightmare 1 & 2,  the software on
computers that have an Internet connection uses this connection to transmit
the name of the computer being used and the name of the user signed in to
the Windows session.  Most alarmingly, the software also transmits the IP
address of the player's computer.
The NSMSDT will be investigating this matter in an attempt to analyze where
the information is being sent. Some of our sources have suggested that the
culprit may be the ADL, but this has not been confirmed.  We are urging all
people that want to play Zogs' Nightmare to ONLY purchase a copy from NSM88
Records or one of our exclusive retailers. If you have illegally downloaded
a copy of Zogs' Nightmare I or II, we urge you to delete it from you system
immediately, save all personal files, re-format your hard drive and
reinstall your operating system from scratch to guarantee that you computer
has not been compromised.
The NSMSDT will not be taking any further action in regards to a patch as
none of the LEGAL versions of the games have been compromised.  The only
compromised games have been from sites that are offering the software
illegally for download.
Every game disc has a digital signature that can be verified by our software
team in which they can immediately tell if the program was tampered with.
Furthermore, an electronic serial number is included with each game, an
internal license key, and if this software is distributed illegally online
the NSMSDT can track the the illegal content by license number.
The NSMSDT had the digital signature and serial numbers compiled to the
final source code before the games went to pressing in order to help fight
pirated software.
If you have any questions and are a LEGAL owner of Zogs' Nightmare series
video games, you may contact the NSMSDT by phoning 651.659.6307.
About the NSM:
The NSM organization is the largest and most active National Socialist
movement in America. The NSM's core beliefs include: defending the rights of
white people everywhere, preservation of our white culture and heritage,
strengthening family values, reform of illegal immigration policies, and
immediate withdrawal of our national military from an illegal Middle Eastern
occupation and promotion of white separation.
To obtain a legal copy of Zogs' Nightmare I or II Visit:
<<link>>
National HQ Contact & Website:
National Socialist Movement
Public Relations Liaison
P.O. Box 580669
Minneapolis, MN. 55458
Phone: 651.659.6307
<<link>>
