ST 1st Class Herring,
NS greetings, glad you liked my statement. I meant every word of it, I am
tired of 1/2 hearted losers and drama queens, this fight is real for me, and
the weak hearted need to get out of the way. Yes, I know about the
importance of Oaths, that is why I addressed it, it is very important to me,
and should be to every single NS in the World.
In regards to the trip, I do hope you can ride along with me, at this point
it might just be you and I going from here, the other guys here either can't
get of work or don't have any $ to go, and the unit Leader is having back
surgery.
I can't imagine you would need more than $350. for the trip, that should be
more than enough (I don't think I will have any more than that myself). Plus
you can always split the cost of a motel room with someone, or several
people the 2 nights we are in Milwaukee. Worse case scenario, if you are
running out of $$$, I can cover the gas, I have to be there anyways, so
don't worry about it, the main thing is to be there, and if you are in a
pinch, I am always willing to help a Brother. If its just us 2 going, I will
probably end up driving my own car, if another person wants to go, we will
have to rent a small car, my back seat is only small enough for children
(lol).
I will let you know about motels when you figure out where the bus is
dropping you off. If it comes down to St. Paul, MPLS, or Hutchinson,
Hutchinson motels will be a little cheaper. If you are going to the City I
suggest St. Paul bus stop not MPLS, due to the bridge collapse MPLS is a
pain in the ass and will slow us down. St. Pauls bus stop is right on
University Ave I think, so that works too. I would put you up here at our
place, but with 6 children, and a very pissed off woman, and not much extra
space, its probably not a good plan (ha ha).
I am very impressed by your dedication, and devotion to our cause, and look
forward to talking with you on the trip about the job the Party has in mind
for you, and just general Comeraderie. 88 Commander Schoep
