05/01/2016 11:48 AM EDT
By Mike Allen (@mikeallen; user@domain.com) and Daniel Lippman (@dlippman; user@domain.com)
BULLETIN -- East Wing statement at 10:59 a.m.: "The President and Mrs. Obama announced today that their daughter Malia will attend Harvard University in the fall of 2017 as a member of the Class of 2021. Malia will take a gap year before beginning school."
INSIDE THE CAMPAIGNS - "Inside Cruz's camp, confidence crumbles: The candidate is projecting strength, but a string of discouraging signs has his advisers worried," by Alex Isenstadt in Burlingame, Calif.: "[S]everal aides ... expressed growing alarm that Cruz would lose Indiana's primary on Tuesday ... One senior aide said there had been no discussion about dropping out before the final primary contests are held on June 7 but noted that Cruz wouldn't be eager to prolong a campaign he was convinced he couldn't win. ... 
"'A Cruz loss in Indiana means lights out,' said Scott Reed, the chief political strategist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. 'Game, set, match.'" <<link>> 
OVERHEARD: Paul Manafort, to a guest at last night's White House Correspondents' Dinner, re Ted Cruz: "He's desperate." ... When the crowd was asked to get quiet for Michelle Obama, Jay Carney repeatedly clinked his glass to try to help silence the press but without much success: "They used to listen to me."
SUNDAY BEST ... Hillary Clinton to Jake Tapper on CNN's "State of the Union" (taped Friday at the 21 Club in Manhattan), re Trump: "I have a lot of experience dealing with men who sometimes get off the reservation in the way they behave and how they speak. I'm not gonna deal with their temper tantrums or their bullying or their efforts to try to provoke me. He can say whatever he wants to say about me. I could really care less. I'm gonna stand up for what I think the American people need and want in the next president." <<link>> 
HOT VIDEO, co-produced by Vanity Fair and Funny or Die: "Valerie Jarrett Meets Her New Comedy Adviser, Matt Walsh" of "Veep." Filmed in West Wing. <<link>> 
46 PICS from the afterparty hosted by Michael Bloomberg and Vanity Fair Editor Graydon Carter at the French Ambassador's residence: grinning Joe Biden (#1), Damian Lewis (#4), John Kerry with Sally Quinn and Leon Wieseltier (#6), Valerie Jarrett (#10), Chris Matthews (#26), Michael Bloomberg (#28), Uber CEO Travis Kalanick (#33), Arianna Huffington with Silicon Valley investor Shervin Pishevar (#35), Tory Burch (#37), Norah O'Donnell and Larry Wilmore (#39), Megyn Kelly (#41), Tom Hiddelston and Helen Mirren (#42), Gayle King and daughter Kirby Bumpus (#44), Tony Romo and wife Candice Crawford (#45), front lawn of French Ambassador's Residence (#46). 
<<link>>
HAPPY SUNDAY, and welcome to May! PRESIDENT OBAMA took the podium of last night's White House Correspondents' Association Dinner to Anna Kendrick singing, "You're gonna miss me when I'm gone." As the music faded, he began: "You can't say it, but you know it's true. (Laughter.) ... It is an honor to be here at my last -- and perhaps THE last -- White House Correspondents' Dinner. You all look great. The end of the Republic has never looked better. (Laughter and applause.) I do apologize -- I know I was a little late tonight. I was running on C.P.T. -- (laughter) -- which stands for 'jokes that white people should not make.' (Laughter and applause.) ... 
"My eighth and final appearance at this unique event. And I am excited. If this material works well, I'm going to use it at Goldman Sachs next year. (Laughter and applause.) Earn me some serious Tubmans. That's right. (Laughter and applause.) My brilliant and beautiful wife, Michelle, is here tonight. (Applause.) She looks so happy to be here. (Laughter.) That's called practice - it's like learning to do three-minute planks. (Laughter.) She makes it look easy now. (Laughter.) Next year at this time, someone else will be standing here in this very spot, and it's anyone's guess who she will be. ... 
"Eight years ago, I said it was time to change the tone of our politics. In hindsight, I clearly should have been more specific. (Laughter.) Eight years ago, I was a young man, full of idealism and vigor, and look at me now. (Laughter.) I am gray and grizzled, just counting down the days till my death panel. (Laughter and applause.) ... And yet, somehow, despite all this, despite the churn, in my final year, my approval ratings keep going up. (Laughter.) The last time I was this high, I was trying to decide on my major. (Laughter and applause.)
"And here's the thing: I haven't really done anything differently. So it's odd. Even my aides can't explain the rising poll numbers ... [SLIDE with side-by-side pics of snarling Trump and Cruz] (Laughter and applause.) Puzzling. ... 
"GOP Chairman Reince Priebus is here as well. (Applause.) Glad to see you that you feel that you've earned a night off. (Laughter.) Congratulations on all your success. The Republican Party, the nomination process -- it's all going great. Keep it up. (Laughter and applause.) ... 
"Bernie's slogan has helped his campaign catch fire among young people: 'Feel the Bern.' ... Hillary's slogan has not had the same effect. Let's see this. (SLIDE: "Trudge Up the Hill.") (Laughter.) Look, I've said how much I admire Hillary's toughness, her smarts, her policy chops, her experience. You've got to admit it, though: Hillary trying to appeal to young voters is a little bit like your relative just signed up for Facebook. (Laughter.) 'Dear America, did you get my poke?' (Laughter.) 'Is it appearing on your wall?' (Laughter.) 'I'm not sure I am using this right. Love, Aunt Hillary.' (Laughter and applause.) It's not entirely persuasive. ... 
"I am a little hurt that [Trump's] not here tonight. We had so much fun the last time. (Laughter.) And it IS surprising: You've got a room full of reporters, celebrities, cameras, and he says no? (Laughter.) Is this dinner too tacky for The Donald? (Laughter.) What could he possibly be doing instead? Is he at home, eating a Trump Steak -- (laughter) -- tweeting out insults to Angela Merkel? (Laughter.) What's he doing? (Laughter.) 
"The Republican establishment is incredulous that he is their most likely nominee ... They say Donald lacks the foreign policy experience to be president. But, in fairness, he has spent years meeting with leaders from around the world: Miss Sweden, Miss Argentina, Miss Azerbaijan. ... 
"And with that, I just have two more words to say: 'Obama out.' [Drops mike.] (Laughter and applause.) Thank you. (Applause.)" Full video <<link>>
HuffPost banner, "OBAMA OUT" ... DRUDGE banner, "COMEDIAN EATS THE PRESS -- OUTRAGE AT WHITE HOUSE DINNER!" with a TV screenshot of Don Lemon giving the finger back to Larry Wilmore after he called him an "alleged journalist".
