Phil, David,
as David says I'll be away in Oklahoma first week in March. Antarctic
data first piqued my interest with the Science paper on raobs trends
which was clearly non-physical but hard to nail down how wrong it was. I
did some minor digging into READER and found that in the UA domain it
was qc'ed but not homogenised. I've made a rather rash assumption that
this would also be the case for the surface data but am happy to be
corrected.
Its clear to me that Antarctica is a uniquely difficult environment to
collect long-term homogeneous data in. So I have substantial doubts that
all the manned station pegs in Steig et al. are adequate. Does this
really matter? I'm not sure.
What Steig et al., satellites, and potentially reanalyses does do is
allow us, in principle, at least to get around the no-neighbours issue
in assessing homogeneity away from the peninsula. 
For example we could use a bootstrapping of the Steig et al approach by
creating say 50 realisations of each station series using randomly
seeded combinations of manned station pegs as the S et al. RegEM
constraint (excluding the candidate station) to make a neighbour
composite ensemble. We could then add in the available reanalysis field
estimates and satellite estimates and make a reasonable punt about the
existence and magnitude of any breaks based upon multiple lines of
evidence (of course, we lose some of these before 1979 ...). We could
use this information to assess in a more rigorous way than has been done
to date the homogeneity of these sparse stations. Then cleaned up data
could be fed back through Steig et al. afterwards to see how it impacts
that analysis making for a nice clean self-contained study.
My understanding from the blog discussion of Steig et al. is that the
analysis step is fairly trivial so such an ensemble realisation approach
should be plausible with a humble PC so long as it has the coding
platform available.
Of course, this doesn't resolve any fundamental methodological concerns
about the S et al. approach that may exist but it does give us a
reasonable chance of creating a much more homogeneous READER manned
station dataset for next IPCC AR and our future products. 
My suspicion is that actually changing the manned station data in this
way may make S et al. more different to the straight average of the
READER data as used (effectively) in AR5 and point to the importance of
the long-term homogeneity of the data pegs in RegEM ... this may, of
course, be felt to be a can of worms too far ...
Peter
