Marki Costello is Hollywood Royalty and She Has Earned Her Title of The Drama Queen
<<link>>
Step inside talent manager Marki Costello’s crazy showbiz world with E!’s new reality series “The Drama Queen.” Premieres TODAY, Sunday, Nov. 17 at 11 |10c.
"You have a better chance of being struck by lightning than making it."
That's a tough thing to hear if you're trying to make it in Hollywood, and when Marki Costello says it, you better know it's the truth.
Granddaughter of Lou Costello (Abbot and Costello), daughter of a "The Beach Boys" record producer, step-granddaughter of Dean Martin, and goddaughter of musician Terry Melcher, Marki Costello is the definition of Hollywood royalty.
PHOTOS: See Marki's latest pics!
The successful talent manager and celebrity coach spoke exclusively with E! News about growing up in Hollywood, the celebrities she's managed/worked with and what we'll be seeing on her upcoming show, The Drama Queen.
"I'm born and raised in this crazy, cooky town we call Hollywood," Marki revealed. "As my employees and clients say, 'Markiwood.'"
After being immersed in the entertainment world her whole life, Marki's mother told her to stay away from the entertainment business and stressed education. But, after her mother passed away suddenly at 48 from a brain aneurism, Marki dropped out of college.
"I was driving to school and it was a beautiful day out and there was no parking and I said, 'I'm going to the beach.' I think I was rebelling against my mom dying," Marki revealed. "But after about 2 months of going to the beach, I said ‘Well, what am I going to do with my life?' So I got a job working for Chuck Barris and the rest was history." For the full story click here.
Tune-in to the season premiere of The Drama Queen on TODAY, Sunday, November 17 at 11pm E!
A-LIST is our advertising e-blast sent out to 3,000+ industry professionals on our email list. The first blast is FREE for BiH Members.  Content can be a press release or other information provided by the creator.  Contact us for our Non-BiH Member e-blast ad rates.  To Join BiH, click here. 
