To unsubscribe please use this link to remove your subscription.
Choose from 3 great offers and go.
Can't view this e-mail? See it online.
To ensure proper delivery of future Celebrity Cruises Inc. emails, please click hereIf you'd like to continue receiving E-mails and learn more about special offers from Celebrity, click here 
Call Us: 888.305.9153 
Hello Amy 
Choose from these incredible offers on over 385 salings:
As an added bonus, book a Europe vacation and choose TWO offers.* 
FREE Classic
Beverage Packages* 
for two, includes 
wine and spirits. 
FREE
Gratuities* 
for two. 
Onboard Credit*
up to $300 
per stateroom. 
Added benefits for additional family
or friends in your stateroom 
Each additional guest, beyond the first two in your stateroom, receives a free Classic Non-Alcoholic Beverage Package and 40-Minute Internet Package. 
Find your sailings by destination 
Alaska Sailings > 
Asia Sailings > 
Australia & New Zealand > 
Bermuda Sailings > 
Canada Sailings > 
Caribbean Sailings > 
Europe Sailings > 
Hawaii Sailings > 
Panama Canal > 
Our Celebrity Vacation Planners
are available 24/7 
PLAN YOUR TRIP CALL 1-888-305-9153 
We'll call you     Find a travel agent  
South America Sailings > 
Celebrity Cruises is proud to partner with The Breast Cancer Research Foundation® and its mission to achieve prevention and a cure for breast cancer in our lifetime. 
Send to a Friend 
See Other Offers 
Find a Travel Agent 
Email Me a Quote 
FOLLOW US 
* Visit celebritycruises.com for full terms and conditions. 123go! Offer applies to 3-night and longer cruises departing 2/2015-4/2016; ocean view and higher staterooms; non-discounted standard cruise fare. Cruise must be booked 10/6-11/4/14 ("Offer Period"). Certain sailings excluded. First two guests choose two options for European sailings and one option for all other sailings. Promo code required. Onboard credit expires on final night of cruise. Air Offer applies to double occupancy and higher suite Alaska and Europe   
123go! bookings. Purchase flights from Celebrity for one person during Offer Period and receive complimentary coach class round-trip flights for a second person from the gateways listed at celebritycruises.com. Complimentary flights include all airline fees, surcharges and government taxes. Neither purchased airfare nor complimentary flights include checked baggage fees that may be charged by the airline. Flights are for use with 123go! booking, subject to availability and subject to the terms and conditions of airline. Airfare charged at time of air purchase. Air Offer redeemable only after making a Qualified Booking at celebritycruises.com, contacting Celebrity     
Cruises at 1-888-305-9153, or contacting your travel agent. To make air reservations, call Celebrity's Air desk at 1-800-533-7803 or contact your travel agent. All Offers: Offers apply to new, individual bookings; non-transferable; subject to availability and change without notice; and capacity controlled. 
©2014 Celebrity Cruises Inc. Ship's registry: Malta and Ecuador. 
If you wish to change your preferences or opt to be excluded from future commercial e-mail from 
Celebrity Cruises, click here or visit: Celebrity.com 
We hope you enjoyed this email from:
Celebrity Cruises Inc. 
1050 Caribbean Way 
Miami, FL 33132 
www.celebritycruises.com
Privacy Policy 
