<x-flowed>
Attached to this e-mail is a revision of the northern hemisphere 
comparison manuscript. First some general comments. I tried as best as 
possible to incorporate everyone's suggestions. Typically this meant 
adding/deleting or clarifying text. There were cases where we disagreed 
with the suggested changes and tried to clarify in the text why.
In this next round of changes I encourage everyone to make specific 
suggestions in terms of wording and references (e.g. Rutherford et al. 
GRL 1967 instead of "see my GRL paper").  I also encourage everyone to 
make suggestions directly in the file in coloured text or by using 
Microsquish Word's "Track Changes" function (this will save me 
deciphering cryptic penmanship; although I confess, my writing is worse 
than anyone's). If you would prefer to use the editing functions in 
Adobe Acrobat let me know and I will send a PDF file. If you still feel 
strongly that I have not adequately addressed an issue please say so.  
I will incorporate the suggestions from this upcoming round into a 
manuscript to be submitted. After review, everyone will get a crack at 
it again.
I will not detail every change made (if anyone wants the file with the 
changes tracked I can send it).  Here are the major changes:
1) removal of mixed-hybrid approach and revised discussions/figures
2) removal of CE scores from the verification tables
3) downscaling of the Esper comparison to a single figure panel and one 
paragraph.
4) revised discussion of spatial maps and revised figure (figure 8).
5) seasonal comparisons have been revised
Several suggestions have been made for where to submit. These are 
listed on page 1 of the manuscript. Please indicate your preference 
ASAP and I will tally the votes.
I would like to submit by late July, so if you could please get me 
comments by say July 15 that would be great. I will send out a reminder 
in early July.  If I don't hear from you by July 15 I will assume that 
you are comfortable with the manuscript.
Please let me know if you have difficulty with the file or would prefer 
a different format.
Regards,
Scott
</x-flowed>
Attachment Converted: "c:\eudora\attach\nhcomparison_v7_1.doc"
<x-flowed>
