Click here to view the web version.
UPCOMING EVENTS
Join Us for Our Final Elul Shabbat Service
Tomorrow, September 19 | 6:15 p.m. | Sanctuary 
Prepare for Yom Kippur in a way that will create a shift in your life. This Friday, September 19, Rabbi Eli Herscher will deliver a sermon on: "Repentance: Do We Demand too Little of Ourselves - or Too Much?". We look forward to sharing Shabbat with you. 
Info | Contact
Tickets Have Been Sent for Rosh Hashanah!
By now, if you have completed your High Holy Days ticket request via our Wise Connect online system, you should have received your Rosh Hashanah tickets by e-mail. If, for some reason, you have not yet received your e-tickets, please check your spam filter, and if you still did not receive an e-mail from user@domain.com, please contact us. If you did not use Wise Connect to order your tickets, they were sent to you in the mail today.
Running Late? Want to Bring a Friend to Services? 
There is still time to request your tickets if you haven't already or if you would like to purchase additional tickets for guests. Please log in to Wise Connect with the username and password we provided you or call 310.889.2394 and we can help you over the phone. We look forward to seeing you at the High Holy Days!
Info | Contact
S'lihot Service
Saturday, September 20 | 9 p.m. Dessert & Havdalah | Udko 
9:40 p.m. Service | Plotkin Chapel
Join our Rabbis, Cantor Nathan Lam, our cantorial interns Sarah Zerbib-Berda and Kyle Cotler and our professional choir under the direction of Dr. Iris Levine, for our moving S’lihot service at Wise. Through music and beautiful rituals, this service directs our hearts and minds to the process of teshuvah, or turning inward on S’lihot for spiritual preparation and forgiveness. S’lihot is part of the process to prepare us for the 10 Days of Repentance, Aseret Y’may Teshuvah and inspire us to enter the High Holy Day period.
Contact
Streaming High Holy Days Services Online
While we hope that every member of our congregation is able to join us in person for our High Holy Days services, we also know this is not the reality – whether due to illness or other unforeseen circumstances. If you are unable to be here, we want to offer you an opportunity to still participate in our High Holy Days services streamed on the Internet for your convenience. Visit <<link>> to view our services streamed live, beginning at our Erev Rosh Hashanah Services and on Rosh Hashanah Day or click on the Info button below at the start of the desired service. Click here to view the service times for the Sanctuary at Stephen Wise Temple.
Contact
Shofars, Honey Jars, Kiddush Cups, and Candlesticks
The Temple Gift shop is now open with lots of new merchandise. Visit us for all your Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur needs, and for B’nai Mitzvah gifts — a beautiful kippah, tallit or jewelry. Stop by Monday through Thursday between 2 p.m. and 4 p.m., and select Friday nights after services. All proceeds benefit our Wise School. 
Contact 
Watch Rabbi Stern's Elul Shabbat Sermon Online  
If you missed Rabbi Ron Stern's Elul Shabbat sermon last Friday night on "You Can Be More Than You Are: Judaism’s Essential Message of Hope for Each of Us", or if you want to watch it again, click the "Info" button below.  
Info | Contact
MAZAL TOVS
To our B'nai Mitzvah: Wishing you a future filled with joy and blessings. May the Torah guide and inspire you every day of your adult life. Mazal tov to: 
Stephanie and Jeff Jacobs and family on the Bat Mitzvah of their daughter, Emily
Gentille and Terry Koosed and family on the marriage of their daughter, Tamar and Philip Koosed, and Jessica and Joshua Etting on the marriage of their sister, Oliver and Sawyer Etting, and Asher Koosed on the marriage of their aunt, and to Amanda Koosed and Max Roessler on their marriage
Sheryl and Kenneth Pressberg and family on the marriage of their son, Erica Pressberg and David Pressberg on the marriage of their brother, and to Jennifer Schneiderman and Matthew Pressberg on their marriage
Ron and Gloria Gurvitz and family on the marriage of their son, Allison Gurvitz and Matthew Gurvitz on the marriage of their brother, and to Sasha Campbell and Steven Gurvitz on their marriage
Sharon Rowe and Ken Gross and family on the marriage of their daughter, Rachel Gross and Benjamin Gross on the marriage of their sister, and to Rebecca Gross and Oren Friedman on their marriage
We would like to hear about the simchas in your life. If you or someone you know has recently had a baby, wedding, engagement, or any other simcha, our Clergy and community would like to share in it with you. Click here to inform us or email user@domain.com.
CONDOLENCES
Our Wise community extends our deepest sympathy and support to those who are mourning the loss of a loved one. 
Linda Riff and family on the loss of her husband, Mayer Riff
Roberta and Kenneth Lloyd and family on the loss of his mother, Joshua Lloyd, Stacey Lloyd, and Jessica Lloyd and Michael Gold on the loss of their grandmother, and to Adam Gold on the loss of his great-grandmother, Harriet Lloyd
Nas and Alen Cohen and family on the loss of her mother, and to Kiley and Kora on the loss of their grandmother, Marcelle Rabbani
Shelley Spiegel and Ira Brown and family on the loss of his mother, and to Joshua Spiegel-Brown and Rachel Spiegel-Brown on the loss of their grandmother, Sarah Marilyn Brown
Lori Rubin and family on the loss of her mother, and to Rachel Rubin on the loss of her grandmother, Sylvia Rubin
Terry Wunder and family on the loss of his grandmother, Lois Light
TRIBUTES
We honor people through charitable giving. 
RABBIS’ DISCRETIONARY FUND
IN HONOR OF:
the marriage of their son, Matthew to Jennifer Schneiderman, by Sheryl and Kenneth Pressberg
Rabbi Yoshi Zweiback, by Bruce Lerner
IN MEMORY OF:
Hans Erlanger, by the Leveton and Kingsdale Families
FUND SUPPORTING ISRAEL PROGRAMS
IN MEMORY OF:
Allan Freeman, by Donna and Ron Bender and family
MAX HESS LIBRARY FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Max Hess, by Michele and Jim Hess
Max Hess, by the Anderson, Ossip, Perel/Katz, Mashian, Resnick, and Stupp Families
Allan Freeman, by the Anderson and Boujo Families
METUKA BENJAMIN SCHOLARSHIP FUND
IN HONOR OF:
the forthcoming marriage of Erin Kurtzman and Kevin Weiser, by Sara and Irwin Tauben
a donation, by Shelly and Don Levy
IN MEMORY OF:
Allan Freeman, by Susan, Jon, Sami and Carly Berger
DIENER AND KADNER FAMILIES LIBRARY FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Sadie Goldberg and Jonas Bienenfeld, by Renee and Robert Bienenfeld
GENERAL FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Louis Jarcho, by Marjie, Bob, Allie, and Caroline Gross
WISE PROGRAMMING FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Sarah Esther Baumann, by Terrie and Richard Baumann
SOCIAL JUSTICE FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Sylvia Rubin, by Diane Kabat
YAHRZEIT FUND
IN MEMORY OF:
Boris Gutman, by Frida Donner
Minnie Greenberg, by Millie Pecora and family
THANK YOU 
We appreciate our wonderful Nosh Volunteers and Greeters. Thank you for making Shabbat a welcoming experience for all! 
Norma Cooper
Susan Firestone
Peggy Wehrle
This Week's Torah Portion
S'lihot
Shabbat Services for Friday, September 19 - Saturday, September 20
Friday, September 19: 6:15 p.m. | Elul Shabbat Service (see description at left) | Rabbi Eli Herscher and Cantor Nathan Lam | Sanctuary
Saturday, September 20: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan | Rabbi Spike Anderson and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Hershenson Hall
Contact Clergy
Rosh Hashanah Services for Wednesday, September 24 - Friday, September 26
Wednesday, September 24: Various times | Erev Rosh Hashanah Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule.
Thursday, September 25: Various times | Rosh Hashanah Day Services | Multiple Venues | Click here for service schedule.
Friday, September 26: 10 a.m. | 2nd Day Rosh Hashanah Service | Sanctuary
Tickets are not required for this service.
Contact Clergy
Shabbat Services for Friday, September 26 - Saturday, September 27
Friday, September 26: 6:15 p.m. | Shabbat Service | Rabbi Ron Stern and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Plotkin Chapel
Saturday, September 27: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan | Dennis Prager and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Zerbib-Berda | Hershenson Hall
Contact Clergy
Live Streaming for our Shabbat Service on the Web
If you or someone you know is home-bound, unable to travel to our campus, or if you are unable to attend services, visit www.WiseLA.org/Live to watch our Friday evening Shabbat Services. Streaming is available on all computers, as well as supported mobile devices, including iPhones and iPads. We look forward to sharing Shabbat with you – both in person and over the web!
SCHOOL CALENDARS
Early Childhood
Calendar | Contact
K-6
Calendar | Contact
Wise Parent Association
Calendar | Contact
CONNECT
Phone: 310.476.8561
Web: WiseLA.org
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Send us an Email
If your spouse or partner (or someone else you know) would like to be added to the WiseGuide weekly email list,
or if you wish to inform us about a lifecycle event, email user@domain.com.
Shabbat Shalom
