By Isaac Arnsdorf | 05/13/2016 02:00 PM EDT
With help from Brianna Gurciullo and Mary Lee
TAX SEASON: Cornerstone Government Affairs is lobbying for H&R Block on tax preparation administration issues. The team includes Todd Webster [former chief of staff for Sen. Chris Coons (D-Del.)], Michael Higdon [former chief of staff for Rep. Hal Rogers (R-Ky.)], Michelle Mrdeza (former majority staff director of the House Appropriations Committee's Subcommittee on Homeland Security), Michael Smith (former Midwest political director for Al Gore's 2000 campaign), Denise Bode (former CEO of the American Wind Energy Association) and Timothy Wolfmeyer [former staffer for Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.)]. The company also retains Fierce Government Relations, Forbes-Tate, Rock Creek Counsel and
Covington & Burling.
MARKET MAKERS: The Equity Dealers of America has hired Rich Feuer Anderson to lobby on issues related to capital formation and market structure. The filing names founding principal Peter Rich (former counsel to the House Energy and Commerce Committee), founding principal Mitchell Feuer (former counsel to the Senate Banking Committee), John Anderson [former senior policy adviser to Sen. Mike Crapo (R-Idaho)] and Alex Teel [former designee for former Chairman Emeritus Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.) to the House Committee on Financial Services].
HAPPY FRIDAY! Don't miss Ben Smith guest-hosting Playbook! @BuzzFeedBen dismissed the rumor he'll be returning as @POLITICOBen. Sad! Who wants to guest-host PI? Send tips to user@domain.com.
PROMOTION: Mercury named Michael Soliman partner. He joined the firm in 2013. He is a senior strategist to Sen. Robert Menendez and was an adviser to Sen. Cory Booker's 2014 reelection campaign.
INTEL: The Counter Extremism Project hired former CIA analyst Tara Maller as its new spokeswoman. Maller most recently was director of strategic communications for the Service Year Alliance, a joint project of the Aspen Institute and Be The Change. <<link>>
501c4: The National Parks Conservation Association started an "Action Fund" nonprofit organization focused to pressure members of Congress to support national parks. The board includes former Rep. Victor Fazio at Akin Gump, Andrew Spielman at WilmerHale and Jane Lyder, former legislative counsel and deputy assistant secretary for fish and wildlife and parks at the Department of the Interior.
ICYMI: K Street is trying to get a handle of Donald Trump's elusive policy positions. POLITICO's Darren Samuelsohn and Manuela Tobias decode what he says and what he means.
HARRY, LOUISE & HILLARY: Chip Kahn, the health care lobbyist and head of the Federation of American Hospitals who masterminded the infamous "Harry and Louise" ad campaign, blames Hillary Clinton for the failure of her 1993 health reform plan, saying her attack on the ads only made them more visible, Kahn told POLITICO's Dan Diamond in the latest episode of the "Pulse Check" podcast.
JUST SAY NO: Ragging on congressional fundraising is so hot right now. Businessman Randy Perkins, a Democrat runnig to replace Rep. Patrick Murphy, will not solicit campaign contributions anymore and will refund any he receives, reports POLITICO Florida's Marc Caputo. Rep. David Jolly (R-Fla.), who bashed fundraising to "60 Minutes" just before rattling his own collection plate, says lobbyists shouldn't be allowed to contribute to congressional campaigns - just like he used to when he was a lobbyist, reports Michael Auslen for Tampa Bay Times.
BYE NAVIENT: Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) is expanding her assault on student loan company Navient Solutions with a new letter to the Department of Education criticizing Navient's lobbying spending, reports Danielle Douglas-Gabriel for The Washington Post. Naivent officials disputed her figures. Navient spent $710,000 in the first quarter and is represented by Mercury, Nixon Peabody, Van Scoyoc Associates, Empire Consulting Group, and the Cutler Group.
WALL STREET TO K STREET: Hedge funds including Paulson & Co, and Perry Capital LLC are funding a lobbying campaign to release government control over mortgage giants' profits, reports Joe Light for The Wall Street Journal. Paulson & Co. paid $260,000 to American Continental Group and Hogan Lovells, while Perry Capital spent $140,000 for work by law firm Gibson Dunn & Crutcher.
AROUND TOWN:
- PayPal held its first fly-in since splitting with eBay last year. Twelve members of the Small Merchant Advocacy Delegation talked to House and Senate Members about PayPal's online lending product. Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Payments Caucus co-founder, spoke to the group at breakfast Wednesday morning, and SMAD Members joined the Electronic Transaction Association's Online Small Business Lending Policy Day on Thursday.
- The DC Preservation League will honor private equity billionaire and Democratic donor David Bonderman with a black-tie gala tomorrow in the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue, in front of Donald Trump's new hotel.
- On Tuesday, WilmerHale toasted its newish public policy and legislative affairs department at Charlie Palmer's. SPOTTED: department founder Jonathan Yarowsky, practice co-chair Rob Lehman, managing partner Bob Novick, regulatory chair Jamie Gorelick, former Sen. Ken Salazar and partner Stephen Preston; Sens. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) , John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.); Reps. John Conyers (D-Mich.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), David Joyce (R-Ohio), Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio); as well as Meredith Broadbent, Chairman, US International Trade Commission.
- SPOTTED at the ITI Tech Show Wednesday: President and CEO Dean Garfield; ITI Board Chairwoman Paula Collins, OMB Director Shaun Donovan, FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn, Ambassador Robert Holleyman of USTR, Deputy Secretary of Labor Chris Lu, Tony Scott U.S. Chief Information Officer, Reps. Ken Buck (R-Colo.), Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Will Hurd (R-Texas), Bill Johnson (R-Ohio), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Juan Vargas (D-Calif.) and Jackie Walorski (R-Ind.). The event preceded ITI's spring board meeting with their 64 member companies, where the tech industry recognized Sens. Rob Portman (R-Ohio) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) and Reps. Will Hurd (R-Texas) and Suzan DelBene
(D-Wash.) as ITI Tech Legislators of the Year.
- Global Policy Link is hosting Scott Pattison, the new CEO and executive director of the National Governors Association, for a discussion today with NGA's Mark Brady, Marc Ross of Caracal Strategies, Jamian Ronca Spadavecchia of Oxbow Advisory, Suzanne Chartol of Technology Business Management Council, Sara Estes of Perrigo, Vincent Frillici of Frillici Strategies, Perry Jobe Smith of The Avalon Institute and Julie Broad of Booz Allen Hamilton.
NEW JOINT FUNDRAISING COMMITTEES:
Georgia Victory Fund (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Joint Fundraiser)
NEW PAC REGISTRATIONS:
AllOne Health Resources, Inc. PAC (AllOne Health PAC) (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
Cisco Communications (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Floridians for Freedom (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Never Hillary PAC (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Our American Future (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:
None
NEW LOBBYING TERMINATIONS:
Covington & Burling LLP: Protect Trade Secrets Coalition (informal coalition)
McGuireWoods Consulting (a subsidiary of McGuireWoods LLP): Oregon Health Authority
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
