Once again, we have TeenScreen's director popping up
her head and we need to shoot it off - figuratively.
Everybody, please write a letter. It can be very
brief, just write.
Mainly your letter should be anything about how bad
TeenScreen is. 
If your last name ends in C or T, I have a special
request. I want you to be critical of the fact that
they printed her letter at all. You can be critical of
the newspaper directly if you want "you must have no
integrity at all!" or you can take their side against
the evil TeenScreen talking head, "Leslie MacGuire has
taken advantage of your good name". What you want to
communicate is that the letters to the editor section
has been perverted and turned into free advertising
for TeenScreen, distributing falsehoods, and then go
right into the truth about TeenScreen.
Send your letter to user@domain.com
You're writing in response to the article below. 
And report compliance by email.
Best,
Doyle
<<link>>
April 12, 2006 
The suicide epidemic
Thank you for your article, Pueblo suicide rate
higher than national averages, regarding Pueblos
suicide rate and local suicide prevention efforts.
Coverage on this important topic helps to shed light
on the critical issue of suicide, a very real and
prevalent problem that is too often overlooked.
In Colorado, suicide is the second leading cause of
death for 15- to 19-year-olds. Studies by the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) show that
nearly 14 percent of Colorado high school students
think seriously about suicide and nearly 11 percent
have made a suicide attempt. Research tells us that 90
percent of youth who die by suicide suffer from a
diagnosable and treatable mental illness at the time
of their death, but the vast majority of these teens
are not known to their parents, teachers or other
adults as suffering from a mental disorder.
In response to this public health crisis, Columbia
University has spent more than a decade developing its
TeenScreen Program. TeenScreen is a mental health
screening program that provides communities throughout
the nation with free tools and training to identify
youth who are at risk for suicide and those suffering
from unidentified mental illness. Screening always is
voluntary and no child is screened without a parents
permission. Screening can help find those youth who
are suffering from undiagnosed mental illness or are
at risk for suicide, make their parents aware of their
childrens difficulties, and help to connect them with
the mental health services that can save their lives.
No family is immune from the potential horror of
suicide. I strongly encourage parents, health
professionals, educators and others in your community
to support prevention and early intervention programs,
including mental health screening, to help prevent the
terrible tragedy of teen suicide.
Leslie McGuire, Director
Columbia University TeenScreen Program
New York City
