Click here to view the web version.
UPCOMING EVENTS
Begin Your High Holy Days Preparation with Us 
Begin your preparation for the Days of Awe by joining us at our 6:15 p.m. Shabbat Services throughout the month of Elul as each of our Rabbis deliver sermons on topics related to the holidays. We look forward to sharing in these services with you and to helping you get ready for 5775. | August 29, September 5, 12, and 19 | 6:15 p.m. Shabbat Service
Info | Contact
Your High Holy Day Tickets are One Click Away with Wise Connect       
By now, you should have received an e-mail from Rabbi Herscher welcoming you to Wise Connect – the gateway to your Stephen Wise membership information. We hope you will reaffirm your connection to Wise by joining us for another year and by requesting your High Holy Day tickets through this system. If you have any questions or need additional assistance, please click "Contact" below. Also, for your convenience, we have created a Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) page that can answer many of the questions that you may have about this new process. Click here to view this page. If you have not received this e-mail, we recommend you check your spam folder to be sure it hasn't been automatically filed in there.  We look forward to sharing the new year with you!
Info | Contact
Max Steinberg Memorial
Tuesday, August 12 | 6 p.m. | Saban Theatre
Join us as we honor the memory of Max Steinberg, z’l, born and raised in our community, who fell in battle almost three weeks ago. His story is one of inspiration, dedication, and love for the State of Israel. It is important for us as a community to show support to his family, to the people of Israel, to those who were injured, and to the families of those who were killed in this fight against terrorism. His mother and father, sister, and brother will speak along with other dignitaries who will add their voices of praise to the bravery of this young man. Cantor Nathan Lam, Cantors Marcus Feldman of Sinai Temple, Nati Baram of Young Israel of North Beverly Hills, and Don Gurney of Wilshire Boulevard Temple will participate. Bags, backpacks, and large purses will not be allowed into the Theatre. 
Info | Contact
New and Exciting Catering Options!
In response to our congregants’ requests for a variety of catering options, we are pleased to announce that we have partnered with three companies who will offer a wide selection of styles, pricing, and service to ensure your event at Stephen Wise is exactly what you have dreamed of!  Whether it is a small or large gathering, a celebration, meeting, or memorial reception, your needs will be met by either Tarte Catering, The Kitchen for Exploring Foods, or Wolfgang Puck. The choice will be yours.  All three companies are passionate about catering, innovative in their approach, and know that events at Wise are an important service to our community. 
Your Temple wants to be a part of your next event, large or small, indoors or out, and we have a variety of venues and chefs to make your event more memorable!  For more information about Wise Events, contact Stacey Rosenthal by clicking the link below or calling 310.889.2247.
Take a peek at the websites of our new preferred caterers: 
Tarte......click here.
The Kitchen for Exploring Foods...click here.
Wolfgang Puck Catering.....click here.
Contact
New at Wise: Your Updated Membership Commitment Statements!
You spoke and we listened! Look out in the mail for your new and improved statements. They have been formatted to include your total commitment for the current fiscal year in list form. You will be able to clearly see how your payments are being applied to your total bill for up-to-the-minute information at your fingertips. Also, at the bottom of this document will be helpful tips and listings of events and happenings at Wise. For more information, click the “contact” link below. 
Contact
From Holocaust To Rwanda To Darfur And The Democratic Republic of Congo (D.R.C.) 
Stephen Wise Temple has been a partner with Jewish World Watch (JWW) since its inception in 2004 at the height of the Darfur Genocide.  Started on the premise of "Never Again," JWW's humanitarian work continues in both the Darfur refugee camps in Chad and in the Democratic Republic of Congo.  JWW has visited the DRC twice this summer, and if you were compelled by the stories from last High Holy Days, you will be inspired and moved to read the blogs from this Summer's trips.  Mitzvah Day is not far off, Sunday, November 2, where you will be able to engage with hands-on JWW activities, but here is an opportunity to further understand how our Holocaust past moves us to tell today's genocidal stories and recovery.  
Info | Contact
Your Donated Blood Can Save a Life
Charlie Segal, newborn son of our Temple members Darren and Katie Segal, and grandson of our members Errol and Marilyn Segal, is at UCLA Medical Center.  His condition has required many blood transfusions. If you are willing to donate a pint of blood, the family would be deeply appreciative. Please call the UCLA Blood and Platelet Center at 310.794.7207. Ask for Matthew and provide the following information in order to make an appointment to donate: 
Baby’s Name: Charlie Segal
Parents' Names: Katie and Darren Segal 
Contact
Watch Rabbi Anderson's Shabbat Service Online
If you missed Rabbi Spike Anderson's Shabbat service last Friday night with his sermon on "How to Personally Counter the Heaviness of Our Crisis", or if you want to watch it again, click the "Info" button below.
Info | Contact
MAZAL TOVS
To view a list of Mazal Tovs, click here.
We would like to hear about the simchas in your life. If you or someone you know has recently had a baby, wedding, engagement, or any other simcha, our Clergy and community would like to share in it with you. Click here to inform us or e-mail user@domain.com.
CONDOLENCES
To view a list of Condolences, click here.
CONTRIBUTIONS
To view a list of Contributions, click here. 
THANK YOU TO
To view a list of Volunteers, click here.
This Week's Torah Portion
Shabbat Nahamu
Shabbat Services for Friday, August 8 - Saturday, August 9
Friday, August 8: 6:15 p.m. | Shabbat Service | Rabbi Spike Anderson and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Fortman | Rabbi Anderson's sermon topic is entitled: "Reaching Out, Building Bridges, and Singing Matisyahu’s One Day…" | Plotkin Chapel
Saturday, August 9: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan |
Rabbi Spike Anderson and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Fortman | Milken Community High School
Contact Clergy
Shabbat Services for Friday, August 15 - Saturday, August 16
Friday, August 15: 6:15 p.m. | Shabbat Service | Rabbi Yoshi Zweiback and Cantor Nathan Lam | Plotkin Chapel
Saturday, August 16: 10 a.m. | Shabbat Morning Minyan |
Dennis Prager and Cantorial Intern, Sarah Fortman | Hershenson Hall
Contact Clergy
SCHOOL CALENDARS
Early Childhood
Calendar | Contact
K-6
Calendar | Contact
Wise Parent Association
Calendar | Contact
CONNECT
Phone: 310.476.8561
Web: www.WiseLA.org
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Send us an E-mail
If your spouse or partner (or someone else you know) would like to be added to the WiseGuide weekly e-mail list,
or if you wish to inform us about a lifecycle event, e-mail user@domain.com.
Shabbat Shalom
