Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs). Yes, very persistent, very STICKY.
Please find a few VERY interesting CASE HISTORIES  by the WSJ on the  difficulty of eradicating sophisticated malware infections.
"The episode illustrates the two-way nature of high-technology sleuthing. For all of the U.S. government’s prowess at getting into people’s computers through the NSA and the military’s Cyber Command, the government faces challenges keeping hackers out of its own networks. The discrepancy points to a commonly cited problem with defending computers: Playing offense almost is always easier than playing defense."[…]
"No official determination has been made about who is behind the breach. But five people familiar with the original intrusion said they had seen or been told of links suggesting involvement by the Russian government.""The malware, or intrusion software, is similar to other tools linked to Moscow in the past. Two of the people said the intruders had taken State emails related to the crisis in Ukraine, among other things. In addition, the attack appears very similar to a fall breach of the White House’s unclassified email system, which some U.S. officials linked to Russia."[…]"Investigators believe that hackers first snuck into State Department computers last fall after an employee clicked on a bogus link in an email referring to administrative matters, a type of attack known as a “phish.” That loaded malicious software onto the computer—a common hacker trick that has worked in countless corporate and government breaches."
[…]
"The size of agency’s network and its key function—making sure Washington knows what is happening in the rest of the world—has made the cleanup difficult, the people familiar with the investigation said."[…]"Investigators also see signs that hackers are trying to get back into scrubbed-clean systems with slightly altered versions of their malicious code. It couldn’t be learned if those new intrusion attempts were successful.""Cleaning out any large network takes time. When the Defense Department discovered hackers had penetrated the U.S. Central Command’s classified network in 2008, the cleanup, called Operation Buckshot Yankee, took about a month, two former U.S. officials said. That project likely was easier than the State Department’s effort, because that network was much smaller and access was more restricted.""In 2013, the U.S. Navy discovered that Iranian attackers had breached their unclassified network. Iranian officials never commented on the Navy breach. It took the Navy four months to purge the hackers from their system, The Wall Street Journal reported last year. Then-Vice Adm. Rogers led that operation.
Also available at <<link>> (+), FYI,David
Three Months Later, State Department Hasn’t Rooted Out Hackers
Amount of data lost in unclassified email network is unclear; Investigators point finger at Russia
The U.S. has still not been able 
to evict hackers from the State Department's network three months after 
its unclassified email system was breached. Former Homeland Security 
Department official Stewart Baker explains. Photo: AP
By Danny Yadron
Feb. 19, 2015 7:17 p.m. ET
Three months after the State Department confirmed hackers 
breached its unclassified email system, the government still hasn’t been
able to evict them from the department’s network, according to three 
people familiar with the investigation.Government officials, 
assisted by outside contractors and the National Security Agency, have 
repeatedly scanned the network and taken some systems offline. But 
investigators still see signs of the hackers on State Department 
computers, the people familiar with the matter said. Each time 
investigators find a hacker tool and block it, these people said, the 
intruders tweak it slightly to attempt to sneak past defenses.It
isn’t clear how much data the hackers have taken, the people said. They
reaffirmed what the State Department said in November: that the hackers
appear to have access only to unclassified email. Still, unclassified 
material can contain sensitive intelligence.National Security 
Agency Director Michael Rogers, center, listens during an interview in 
New York last month. The NSA is investigating a hacking attack on the 
State Department
Photo: 
Bloomberg News
The episode illustrates the two-way nature of high-technology 
sleuthing. For all of the U.S. government’s prowess at getting into 
people’s computers through the NSA and the military’s Cyber Command, the
government faces challenges keeping hackers out of its own networks. 
The discrepancy points to a commonly cited problem with defending 
computers: Playing offense almost is always easier than playing defense.
The revelation that hackers are still in the State Department’s network comes less than a week after President 
Barack Obama
led a cybersecurity summit at Stanford University and signed an 
executive order prodding companies to share more information on hacking 
threats.The White House and NSA referred questions to the State Department. The NSA’s director, Adm. Michael Rogers, led a similar hacking investigation for the U.S. Navy. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, which also is involved in the investigation, declined to comment.“We
deal successfully with thousands of attacks every day,” State 
Department spokeswoman Marie Harf said in a written statement. “We take 
any possible cyber intrusion very serious—as we did with the one we 
discussed several months ago—and we deal with them in conjunction with 
other relevant government agencies.”No official determination 
has been made about who is behind the breach. But five people familiar 
with the original intrusion said they had seen or been told of links 
suggesting involvement by the Russian government. 
The malware, or intrusion software, is similar to other tools 
linked to Moscow in the past. Two of the people said the intruders had 
taken State emails related to the crisis in Ukraine, among other things.
In addition, the attack appears very similar to a fall breach of the 
White House’s unclassified email system, which some U.S. officials 
linked to Russia.The Russian embassy in Washington didn’t 
respond to a request for comment on Thursday. The embassy traditionally 
hasn’t responded to accusations about digital espionage.Both the
U.S. and Russia use hacker tricks to spy on each other. This week, the 
Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab ZAO released a report that 
documented U.S. computer spying on Russia and other countries. The NSA 
declined to comment on that report. Assuming that Russia was involved, U.S. investigators are puzzling over why were they able to detect the breach. American
national-security officials view Russia’s computer warriors as on par 
with their own and capable of avoiding detection. One person familiar 
with the incident said that either Moscow wanted to send Washington a 
message, or it had deployed the “B-Team.”Investigators believe 
that hackers first snuck into State Department computers last fall after
an employee clicked on a bogus link in an email referring to 
administrative matters, a type of attack known as a “phish.” That loaded
malicious software onto the computer—a common hacker trick that has 
worked in countless corporate and government breaches.From 
there, the hackers spread through the State Department’s sprawling 
network that includes machines in thousands of offices across the U.S., 
embassies and other outposts. It isn’t clear why the hackers were able 
to gain such wide access and whether the State Department routinely 
cordons off portions of its network to limit such maneuvers.The 
size of agency’s network and its key function—making sure Washington 
knows what is happening in the rest of the world—has made the cleanup 
difficult, the people familiar with the investigation said.For 
example, they said it is hard to take even a portion of the State 
Department network offline over a weekend, as is sometimes done 
following corporate breaches. It isn’t clear how much, if any, of the 
network is now hacker-free, they said. Portions of the State Department 
system, such as remote email access, still occasionally are taken 
offline, one person familiar with the matter said.Investigators 
also see signs that hackers are trying to get back into scrubbed-clean 
systems with slightly altered versions of their malicious code. It 
couldn’t be learned if those new intrusion attempts were successful.Cleaning
out any large network takes time. When the Defense Department 
discovered hackers had penetrated the U.S. Central Command’s classified 
network in 2008, the cleanup, called Operation Buckshot Yankee, took 
about a month, two former U.S. officials said. That project likely was 
easier than the State Department’s effort, because that network was much
smaller and access was more restricted.In 2013, the U.S. Navy discovered that Iranian attackers had breached their unclassified network. Iranian officials never commented on the Navy breach.It
took the Navy four months to purge the hackers from their system, The 
Wall Street Journal reported last year. Then-Vice Adm. Rogers led that 
operation. Write to Danny Yadron at user@domain.com 
