Mike and all
Hi , just back from a trip and only now catching up with important emails. Given
the restricted time and space available to furnish a response to SB comments ,
I offer the following mix of comment and specific wording changes:
I agree that the S+B response is designed to deflect criticism by confusing the issues
rather than answering our points.
In fact they fail to address any of the 3 specific
issues we raised Namely , 1. the need for critical evaluation of proxy inputs , 2. the
need for a consistent assimilation of widespread (dated and well resolved ) records,
3. the essential requirement for objective/quantitative calibration (scaling) of the input
records to allow for assessment of the uncertainties when making
comparisons of different reconstructions and when comparing early with recent
temperatures.
Their own , ill-conceived and largely subjective approach did not take
account of the uncertainties and problems in the use of palaeodata that they chose to
highlight in their opening remarks.
I would be in favour of stating something to this effect at the outset of our response.
Also , as regards the tree-ring bit , I fully concur with  the sense of your text as
regards Section 1, but suggest the following wording (to replace ",rarely for annual
ring widths, and almost entirely at higher latitudes.")
"but in certain high-latitude regions only. Where this is the case , these relatively
recent
(ie post 1950) data are not used in calibrating temperature reconstructions. In many other
(even high-latitude) areas  density or ring-width records display no bias."
In the spirit of healthy debate - I agree with Tim's remarks , warning against presenting a
too
sanguine impression that the borehole debate is closed ( though I do think it is closing!).
I also believe , as you already know, that the use of a recent padding algorithm to extend
smoothed data to the present time, is inappropriate if it assumes the continuation of a
recent
trend. This is likely to confuse , rather than inform, the wider public about the current
climate state .
Finally , I repeat my earlier remarks (made before EOS piece published) that we are missing
an opportunity to say that a warm Medieval period per se is not a refutation of
anthropogenic
warming , {as its absence is no proof}, if we do not understand the role of specific
forcings (natural
and anthropogenic) that influenced medieval and current climates.
Cheers
Keith
