Dear White Nationalist:
You are no doubt sickened by the on-going destruction of our White heritage=
.
Japan will always be Japanese, China always Chinese, India always Indian,
Africa always Black, etc. but there is no White nation in the Western world
today that will remain White.  Even Sweden is now =B3multicultural,=B2 and this
destruction is thought =B3progressive=B2 by our liberal elites.
Regardless of what we think of Christianity, multiculturalism got under way
with breakdown of religion in the West.  Coincidence?  Not at all if we
think of religion as social ideology.  Society needs ideology.  It gives a
sense of community and collectivism, and suppresses individual
self-indulgence.  Without social ideology we are all individuals, and what
is liberalism except exalting of the individual that makes him/her prey to
all manner and sort of freedom mongering?  That is the state of White
society today.  It is atomized and rotting.  No wonder that the White race
is on the road to extinction.
The answer, then, lies in religion.  Not the Christian religion, to be sure=
,
but one more enlightened on the Universe and Nature that will not break dow=
n
under the intense glare of reason.  Such a religion is LOGOS Pantheism,
which you can learn about by visiting its website:
=BE<<link>>>.  But do not expect a racist rant.  To be
viable a movement must outreach into the general White mainstream, which no
racist approach can do.  Instead, the intention with this religion is to
grow into congregations, not a party or political =8Cmovement,=B9 formed by
sifting the masses for Whites attracted to it.  The current White masses ar=
e
a write-off but we can and must salvage groups, which can again grow into a
new White nation.  The best of White stock will thereby be preserved with a
religious ideology for survival, and those congregations can later separate
from our decadent and hostile West into a new Nation.  This is a religion
with a strategy. =20
I have contacted you because you are a leader in the White nationalist
cause.  Religions in the past have spread by social contact, requiring
centuries.  LOGOS Pantheism is a religion for White survival.  If it
requires centuries to spread, the White race deprived of belief could becom=
e
extinct.  The modern era, however, is unlike past eras due to the Internet,
and White interests are facilitated by the already existing White
nationalist network that is worldwide.  If you are one touched by this
religion after reading its website, if you are truly interested in White
survival and see the need for an outreach program, and especially if you ar=
e
convinced of the futility of other approaches, LOGOS Pantheism is a religio=
n
you will want to consider.
=20
Yours truly,
Wayne Macleod
