Happy Primary Day!
In a short time, the polls will close in West Virginia and we wanted to share with you and your teams some topline information on their Delegate Selection process.  On our side, there are 29 pledged delegates up for grabs today.  On the GOP side there are 34 delegates allocated to West Virginia. Also, the Nebraska GOP primary is today.  Below, please find a brief summary of the process; attached you will find the internal fact sheet for West Virginia.
As always, please let us know if you have any questions.
WEST VIRGINIA(Primary)
Polls open at 6:30am ET and close at 7:30pm ET
Results can be found here-
<<link>>
<<link>>
Democratic Process
FYI, in addition to Clinton, Sanders and O'Malley, Rocky De La Fuente, Keith Judd and Paul Farrell, Jr. appear on the ballot.  Judd is a convicted felon, who ran in 2012 while in prison; he is now on parole.  He is on the ballot in 6 other states (NH, TX, OK, LA MO and CA).  He received 1.31% of the vote in OK, but received less than 1% in the other states, for a total of 8,575 in the 5 states where he has been on the ballot to-date.  Farrell is an attorney from West Virginia and only appears on the West Virginia ballot.  The West Virginia State Party believes there is a possibility that Farrell will reach the 15% threshold.
There are a total of 29 pledged delegates that will be allocated proportionally based on today's results.  A 15 percent threshold is required in order for a presidential contender to received pledged delegates at either the congressional district or statewide level.
The delegate breakdown is:
District Level-20 delegates
PLEO- 3 delegates
At-Large-6 delegates
District level delegates are allocated based on the results in each Congressional District. The PLEO and At-Large delegates are allocated based on the statewide results.
In addition to the 29 pledged delegates, there are 8 unpledged delegates from West Virginia.
Republican Process
All 34 of West Virginia's delegates to the Republican National Convention are bound in today's Presidential Primary. Each delegate candidate is individually listed on the ballot along with their presidential preference. The delegate candidate receiving the most votes in each contest is elected.
9 district delegates (3 delegates are elected in each of the state's 3 Congressional Districts). 22 at-large delegates (10 at-large plus 12 bonus) are elected statewide.
The 3 party leaders, the National Committeeman, the National Committeewoman, and the chairman of the West Virginia's Republican Party, will attend the convention, by virtue of their position, bound to the candidate receiving the most votes statewide.
NEBRASKA(Primary - REPUBLICAN ONLY)
Democratic caucuses were held March 5. Sanders received 60% of the vote (15 pledged delegates) and Clinton received 40% (10 pledged delegates).
The polls are open from 8:00am to 8:00pm CT and from 7:00 am to 7:00 pm MT (9:00am - 9:00pm ET).
Results can be found here:
<<link>>
On May 14, the Nebraska State Republican Convention convenes. Congressional District Caucuses made up of the State Convention delegates from each of Nebraska's 3 congressional districts elect the 9 district National Convention delegates (3 per congressional district) according to the results of the primary. The State Convention as a whole selects 24 (10 base at-large plus 14 bonus) at-large delegates to the Republican National Convention according to the results of the primary. The 3 party leaders, the National Committeeman, the National Committeewoman, and the chairman of Nebraska's Republican Party, will attend the convention as pledged delegates by virtue of their position.
National Convention delegates are bound to vote for the candidate they pledged support for the first 2 ballots at the National Convention unless the candidate received less than 35% of the vote.
