05/24/2016 07:47 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (user@domain.com; @natashakorecki)  
Good Tuesday morning, Illinois. More than 17 months of this budget battle between Gov. Bruce Rauner and Mike Madigan-led Democrats and we're still more or less in the same place. 
While rank and file lawmakers seem willing to find some common ground, the governor and leaders are at odds over familiar issues. On Monday, Rauner held a news conference saying he wants union-weakening, pro-business changes in exchange for any new revenue. 
"Focus, focus focus ... I hope we don't get bogged down in a lot of other issues...we need a balanced budget," Rauner implored. "I am willing to do taxes as part of the grand bargain. I'd rather not, but I'm willing to do it." 
Sounds like a big shift. But it isn't. Rauner has been saying that since last year: "Rauner: Give me reform, I'll sign a tax hike for Illinois,": <<link>> 
GUESS HE MEANS IT -- "Rauner: 'Turnaround agenda' items must be part of deal on taxes," by Lee Enterprises' Dan Petrella: "Rauner said that if Democrats want to use tax increases to balance the budget, they also need to approve portions of his pro-business, union-weakening 'turnaround agenda,' a position that has contributed to the ongoing standoff that has left the state without a budget for nearly a year ... 'They are 100 percent related to the budget - 100 percent,' Rauner said Monday ... 'We can't have balanced budgets if our government spending is growing faster than our economy is growing. It's not possible.' ... Senate Minority Leader Christine Radogno, R-Lemont, said the situation
is more than a battle of wills between Rauner and House Speaker Michael Madigan, D-Chicago. 'We are really fighting for the very soul of this state,' she said." <<link>> 
NO MORE 'GOOD FRIDAY MASSACRES' -- "Democrats push Rauner on social service agency contract cancellation rules," by Chicago Tribune's Monique Garcia: "As Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner continued his vague calls for compromise Monday, House Democrats approved a measure to require his administration to give 30 days' notice before it could cancel contracts with service providers who care for the vulnerable. The bill is designed to prevent a repeat of an April 2015 move in which Rauner tried to save money by abruptly canceling contracts with social service agencies. Opponents at the Capitol dubbed it the 'Good Friday Massacre.' Rauner later restored the funding amid intense blowback." 
<<link>> 
HATING RAUNER'S PLAN IS NOT A PLAN -- "Brown: Democrats' lack of a plan for Illinois is alarming," by Sun-Times' Mark Brown: "Democrats head down the final stretch of the legislative session with no discernible team plan other than to block Rauner ... There doesn't even seem to be any agreement on the priority of keeping open Chicago Public Schools ... I do believe Democrats could take steps to send a signal beyond our borders that Illinois is still open for business, and not with some gimmicky vote intended to make the other side look bad." 
"In the current sky-is-falling climate perpetuated by Rauner and our state's biggest newspaper, it won't be enough just to fix state government finances with a tax increase ... what's left of Rauner's Turnaround demands - workers comp benefit reductions, property tax relief and pension 'reform' - would seem to be within reach of a business-friendly compromise that Democrats could swallow, if the governor is reasonable about his demands to limit collective bargaining for public employees.... Democrats need to hear the alarm bells and step up now. There will be opportunities later to settle scores with Rauner." <<link>> 
RAUNER CALLS CULLERTON'S COMMENT 'KIND OF GOOFY,' -- "Rauner Laughs At Cullerton Suggestion That Pensions, AFSCME Contracts Are Tied," by Illinois Public Radio's Amanda Vinicky: "'It's very difficult to pass a pension bill with union opposition," [Cullerton] said last week. 'And I can empathize with the folks from AFSCME ... it's kind of difficult to ask them to sacrifice their pensions when we don't even know what their contract is. So if the governor's interest[ed] in helping us pass a pension reform he's going to need to deal with the contract with the unions.' 
"Rauner literally laughed aloud at the notion when asked about it at a press conference Monday. 'I love John. That comment's kinda goofy ... I mean, here's the issue: he's advocated for pension reform. I'm advocating his plan. That has nothing to do with any particular round of contract negotiations. They're not related.' Contract negotiations between the state's largest public workers' union and the Rauner administration are stalled. The state labor relations board is deciding if they've reached an official impasse." <<link>> 
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to user@domain.com or @natashakorecki 
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: <<link>> 
** A message from Nuclear Matters: Illinois' nuclear energy plants provide 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity and contribute nearly $9 billion to our economy. Without Illinois policymakers' support for the Next Generation Energy Plan, two plants - Clinton and Quad Cities - could be forced to close, jeopardizing these benefits and thousands of jobs. Learn more: NuclearMatters.com ** 
DURBIN DISPELS GUBERNATORIAL RUN RUMORS -- From ABC/7 (Video) The quote: U.S. Sen. Dick Durbin: "I would beg the people who are doing all the speculation to cool it." On Rauner's Turnaround agenda: "I don't see anything in the Turnaround Agenda that really will help the economy of this state." <<link>> 
DUUUUDE, 'PROBABLY' IS LIKE, TOTALLY A 'YES' -- "Illinois Governor Says He Will Probably Sign Decriminalization Bill," by Cannabis Now Magazine's Mike Adams: "Cannabis connoisseurs toking it up in Illinois may soon find themselves with the freedom to carry around a little weed without having to worry about a despicable run in with the law. Governor Bruce Rauner told reporters last week that he would likely sign a bill that was pushed through last week by the state legislature that would eliminate the criminal penalties associated with minor pot possession. 'I'll probably be comfortable with it,' Rauner said. 'I've got to see what's there.' ... Although the tone of the Governor's latest
remarks may allude to the possibility of a veto, it is important to understand that this legislation was drafted using the recommendations he offered up last year upon his rejection of a similar measure." <<link>> 
AUTO VOTER CHALLENGES -- "State election board questions automatic voter registration," by the Associated Press: "A plan allowing automatic voter registration in Illinois is advancing through the Legislature despite concerns from the leading state election authority that would have to implement it. Backers want Illinois to join Oregon, California and West Virginia in modernizing voter registration. They say it cleans up voter rolls and boosts civic participation. However, the Illinois State Board of Elections says it's opposed because officials don't currently have a program to put it into place and it could cost millions of dollars. The proposal calls for an initial Sept. 1 deadline to
update files. The whole plan would have to be in place by 2018." <<link>> 
NOT LIKE ANYONE WAS SOLVING BUDGET CRISIS AS SHE PLAYED CANDY CRUSH -- "Commentary: Fun and games while Illinois burns," by Illinois Policy Institute's Diana Sroka Rickert in the Tribune: "You could say state Rep. Kate Cloonen has been crushing it in Springfield. Cloonen, of Kankakee, was caught on camera playing Candy Crush on her iPad during a recent budget debate at the statehouse. She wasn't the only Democrat tuning out. WCIA-TV also got footage of state Rep. Mike Smiddy, Hillsdale, playing a video game while his colleagues discussed our state's future. Credit where credit is due. Cloonen's been in office two terms and already she's bored. House Speaker Mike Madigan became a lawmaker 45
years ago but has never been caught fiddling on an iPhone. Heck, the guy says he doesn't even own a cellphone. That takes discipline, something Madigan has in spades." <<link>> 
MEA CULPA -- "Rep. Katherine 'Kate' Cloonen, D-Kankakee, and another state Democrat playing video games during a budget session last month. The image was caught and broadcast by WCIA-TV in Champaign and a television station in Rockford. 'This was a mistake, and I apologize,' Cloonen told the Daily Journal, The Times' sister paper. 'It won't happen again, and that's needless to say.'" <<link>> 
SUPERINTENDENT. BEHAVING BADLY -- "Feds investigating Lincoln-Way, issue grand jury subpoena," by the Daily Southtown's Gregory Pratt: "Lincoln-Way High School District 210 has come under federal scrutiny, with a grand jury seeking information about the former superintendent's compensation, as well as records related to the spending of bond money and student activity funds, the Daily Southtown has learned. The U.S. Attorney's Office is seeking nearly a dozen categories of records, many of them relating to former Superintendent Lawrence Wyllie, who led the district from 1989-2013, a copy of the subpoena shows. A Daily Southtown investigation in recent months has revealed questionable
financial practices at Lincoln-Way, private uses of public resources and deals benefiting insiders at the district ... The subpoena also ordered the district to turn over 'all records related to misappropriation of federal, state and local funds to include bond funds, restricted funds and student activity funds for the time period of 2006 to the present,' as well as all expenses from the superintendent's emergency fund." <<link>> 
DREW.0 -- "Drew Peterson admitted killing missing wife, wanted prosecutor dead, inmate testifies," by Chicago Tribune's Matthew Walberg: "The solicitation-for-murder case is the latest legal proceeding pitting Peterson against his nemesis, Glasgow, the Will County state's attorney who successfully prosecuted the former Bolingbrook police officer for the 2004 murder of Peterson's third wife, Kathleen Savio. Glasgow testified Monday that he took the alleged threat against his life seriously and it upset his family. But Smith, who worked with authorities to record some of his conversations with Peterson, was the star prosecution witness. During its opening statement, the defense dismissed the
recordings as nonsensical and mere prison talk." <<link>> 
CITY  
NOT LIKE CHICAGO NEEDS THE MONEY ANYWAY - "Parking meters, garages took in $156M - but city won't see a cent," by Chicago Sun-Times' Mick Dumke and Chris Fusco: "Chicago's parking-meter system took in $121.7 million last year, while four underground city-owned garages reaped another $34.7 million - with not a penny of that money going to the cash-strapped city government. Instead, the $156.3 million pot of parking cash went to private investors who control the meters and garages under deals cut by former Mayor Richard M. Daley and rubber-stamped by the City Council ... Chicago Parking Meters - formed by banking giant Morgan Stanley and other financial partners - paid the city $1.15 billion
to manage the meter system and pocket the money fed into it for the next 75 years ... It's on pace to make back what it paid the city by 2020, with more than 60 years of meter money still to come." <<link>> 
SUMMER! IS EXCITING TIME! FOR CITY HALL! "Summertime Chi is upon us with Night Out in the Parks!" From City Hall: "Mayor Emanuel will kick off the fourth-annual summer season of Night Out in the Parks tomorrow, bringing movies, Shakespeare, Theater on the Lake, and more! The 2016 series will include more than 1,200 cultural events and activities at parks across the City's 77 community areas and in all 50 wards. Nearly all events are offered with free admission. Chicagoans and visitors alike are encouraged to download the free MyChiParks mobile application. Browse through the 1,200 events by date, location and interest to discover what exciting activities are happening nearby!" 
#PROGRESS -- "Emanuel cuts new deal to save Laborers Pension Fund," by Sun-Times' Fran Spielman: "Two months after the Illinois Supreme Court struck down his plan to save two of four city employee pension funds, Mayor Rahm Emanuel agreed Monday to save the smaller of the two funds with a mix of union concessions and revenue generated by a telephone tax increase once earmarked for both funds." <<link>> 
SCOTUS (STILL) WON'T HEAR BLAGO CASE -- CBS: "The U.S. Supreme Court has again denied to hear former Gov. Rod Blagojevich's appeal of his corruption convictions. The nation's highest court first rejected Blagojevich's request in March, but his attorneys filed a petition for rehearing in April. The Supreme Court turned down that petition Monday without comment. Blagojevich, 59, has spent the past four years in a federal prison in Colorado, after he was sentenced to 14 years for 18 corruption convictions, following two trials. Among the charges against Blagojevich were allegations he tried to sell or trade an appointment to the vacant U.S. Senate seat once held by President Barack Obama,
shortly after his election in 2008." <<link>> 
WALGREENS AT THE TOP -- "Crain's list of Chicago's top public companies has new No. 1," From Crain's: "It's tough to hold on to No. 1. For the second year straight, the title of largest publicly held company in Chicago has changed hands. Walgreens Boots Alliance, reporting an imposing 35.4 percent increase in revenue, now sits atop Crain's 2016 list, ranked by 2015 revenue. The drugstore chain also held this distinction in 2011 but was leapfrogged on our 2012, 2013 and 2014 lists by Archer Daniels Midland, which rode a wave of rising agricultural commodity prices." <<link>> 
CLICK -- "Chicago Firemen Rescue Chihuahua Stuck In Bathtub Drain," by DNAinfo's Evan F. Moore: "A group of Chicago firefighters will receive an award from PETA (People For The Ethical Treatment Of Animals) for saving a dog that was stuck in the drain in the home of a local family." <<link>> 
CHARTER CLOSINGS COULD TRIGGER FURTHER CPS DISTRESS -- "Charter school shutdowns loom under planned $700 million budget cuts," By Catalyst Chicago's Melissa Sanchez and Kalyn Belsha: "Two dozen or more charter schools would likely have to close their doors this summer if Chicago Public Schools officials go through with plans to cut $700 million from schools' budgets. The cuts could affect up to 15,000 students. 'The scope of the cuts they're talking about - 20 to 25 percent, in that range - would really be a death blow to a number of schools, no doubt about that,' says Andrew Broy, president of the Illinois Network of Charter Schools. 'We'll see dozens of charters schools not be able to
open in the fall.' The prospective cuts could also lead some charter operators to reconsider opening new campuses, and CPS has given operators until July to submit proposals for opening new schools in the fall because of the budget crisis." 
"Closing charter schools would cause upheaval on several fronts: for families who would have to find new schools for their children, for district-run schools that would potentially have to take in thousands of students, and for larger charter networks that might also take in students because they are better positioned to absorb the cuts." <<link>> 
DOES THAT MEAN THERE'S A FAST PASS? -- "Veterans Affairs secretary compares wait times to lines at Disneyland," CBS: "Veterans Affairs Secretary Bob McDonald on Monday downplayed the time it takes for military veterans to receive treatment by comparing the wait times at VA facilities to lines at Disneyland. 'The days to an appointment is really not what we should be measuring. What we should be measuring is the veteran's satisfaction,' McDonald told reporters at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast in Washington, according to The Hill newspaper. 'When you go to Disney, do they measure the number of hours you wait in line? ... What's important is what's your satisfaction with the
experience." <<link>> 
OUTRAGE -- "Kirk: VA wait times 'nothing compared to a day at Disneyland," by Washington Examiner's Sarah Westwood: "Sen. Mark Kirk blasted Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald's comments comparing VA wait times to Disney wait times Monday ... 'The frustration, fear and helplessness our veterans feel waiting for months to get the health care they need is nothing compared to a day at Disneyland and the Secretary should be embarrassed for making such a comparison," Kirk said in a statement Monday ... The Illinois Republican highlighted problems at the Edward Hines VA facility outside Chicago, where whistleblowers have reported that 'food trays are served with cockroaches and rooms are
covered in dangerous mold.' 'The Secretary should apologize for his tone deaf comments and show more respect for the men and women he is supposed to be serving,'" Kirk said. <<link>> 
THESE LINES, ALSO UNRELATED TO DISNEYLAND -- "Top TSA official removed from his position in wake of scrutiny," - CNNPolitics.com: "The change was announced Monday night by the House Oversight Committee's official Twitter account. Kelly Hoggan has been removed from his position as head of security at TSA, following our hearing on May 12 on mismanagement at TSA," the committee tweeted. The House Oversight Committee conducted a hearing on TSA's operations on May 12. At the hearing the TSA Administrator, Peter Neffenger, was questioned why Hoggan was given $90,000 in bonuses when security lines were not improving. His agency is on the defensive after three former TSA employees testified that
they were retaliated against after 'directed reassignments,' where employees who have highlighted wrongdoing within the administration are shifted to other assignments." <<link>> 
CRINGEWORTHY VIEWING -- "'Weiner' Is the Most Compelling (and Cringe-Inducing) Political Documentary of All Time," by Will Leitch and John Heilemann for Bloomberg's Culture Caucus Podcast: "Accusations of more Weiner photos, the emergence of Sydney Leathers and a good old-fashioned New York City media s***storm ... as it turns out ... there were cameras rolling the whole time ... the new film Weiner ... documents that campaign in an uncomfortably detailed and intimate manner. Co-directed by a former Weiner aide, but far from a glossy reconstruction of his image, the film shows us moments inside a campaign that the public would simply never see, and, more than that, moments inside a
marriage. Whether it's staffers screaming at Weiner for his indiscretions, a desperate circling of the wagons to avoid a confrontation with the aforementioned Leathers (code name 'Pineapple') on election night, or a series of increasingly wrought reaction shots from a petrified Abedin, the film is one of the most fascinating and informative political documentaries of all time." <<link>> 
THIS WEEK ON WTTW: "70 Acres In Chicago: Cabrini Green," : "This new local documentary explores the effects of Chicago's 1.5 billion dollar Plan for Transformation, an edict requiring the demolition of the City's public housing high rises, replacing them with mixed-income condominiums. Located on some of the most valuable real estate in Chicago, the film questions and problematizes who has a right to the City." <<link>> 
UPCOMING: Former Gov. Jim Edgar and U.S. Rep. Robin Kelly, D-Ill., will "speak on their visions for the future of Illinois," at an Illinois Campaign for Political Reform luncheon, 12-1:30 p.m. June 7 at the Standard Club. More here: <<link>> 
TODAY's EVENTS courtesy of IntelligentEvent @Chi_Intellevent 
Illinois' Continuing Transportation Infrastructure Crisis: What's Next? - "Metropolitan Planning Commission - Illinois' roads, bridges and transit systems are in a state of significant disrepair. The Metropolitan Planning Council (MPC) estimates that we need $43 billion over the next ten years to fix this problem. A panel of policy experts will discuss how we can dig ourselves out of this hole." 
Judith Frydland, Commissioner, Chicago Department of Buildings - City Club of Chicago - "Judy Frydland oversees the Department of Buildings, a 285-person department with an annual budget of $37 million. The Department of Buildings supports the safety and quality of life for the residents and visitors of the city of Chicago through enforcement of the Chicago Building Code, including permitting, inspections, trade licensing, and regulatory review." 
The Future of the Senate: A Conversation with Senator Tom Harkin - Institute of Politics - Retired Iowa Senator Tom Harkin discusses the state of the U.S. Senate in 2016. 
John Stossel - "Freedom and its Enemies" - Northwestern University College Republicans - "The Northwestern University College Republicans are excited to host the critically-acclaimed, 19-time Emmy-winning journalist and Libertarian pundit John Stossel for a discussion of freedom, capitalism, and the roadblocks they face." 
WHERE'S RAHM? No public events. 
WHERE'S RAUNER? No public events. 
** A message from Nuclear Matters: Some of America's existing nuclear energy plants face early closure due to current economic and policy conditions. Providing more than 62% of America's carbon-free electricity, existing, state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon reduction goals.
In Illinois, our nuclear energy plants provide 48 percent of the state's electricity and 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity. The existing nuclear energy plants also contribute nearly $9 billion to the economy and support approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs. 
But today Illinois doesn't properly value these plants for their carbon-free contributions, placing them in economic jeopardy. Without support from Illinois policymakers for the Next Generation Energy Plan to close this gap, two plants - Clinton and Quad Cities - could be forced to close, jeopardizing thousands of jobs along with many other economic and environmental benefits. Learn more at NuclearMatters.com ** 
READ more Illinois and Chicago news from POLITICO Illinois: <<link>> 
What Works Denver -- THE MILE-HIGH MASS TRANSIT MIRACLE The newest installment of POLITICO Magazine's "What Works" series explores how Denver was able to do what many cities have tried and failed: build a rail system that is a model for 21st-century growth. While other major cities are making headlines for transit systems in decline, Denver is on a fast-track in the other direction. <<link>> 
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: <<link>> ... New York Playbook: <<link>> ... Florida Playbook: <<link>> ... New Jersey Playbook: <<link>> ... Massachusetts Playbook: <<link>> ... Illinois Playbook: <<link>> ... California Playbook: <<link>> and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook:
<<link>> ... All our policy and political tipsheets 
<<link>> 
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
