Hi Phil:
Glad I can help, even if quite indirectly.  I know what you mean about the need for community when under duress.  The individual quality of being a scientist works against us in this way.  Attached are the original letter and the official UCAR response.  I don't know what the lawyers might have written, other than their input to the official response letter.  I do know they sought information from Caspar (and myself, but less so).  I don't recall if we made available to them our correspondance with Steve Schneider about our responses to the review of WA that McIntyre did, which had a lot of information in it that debunked his claims about withholding contrary results, etc, etc..  In fact, we have never mentioned this to Steve, to make sure that he was in the situation to make editorial decisions as focused soley on the science as possible.
I was wondering if there is any way we as the scientific community can seek some kind of "cease and desist" action with these people.  They are making all kinds of claims, all over the community, and we act in relatively disempowered ways.  Note that UCAR did send the response letter to the presidents of the two academic institutions with which MM are associated, although this seems to have had no impact.  Seeking the help of the attorneys you speak about would be useful, I should think.  I know that Mike has said he looked into slander action with the attorneys with whom he spoke, but they said it is hard to do since Mike is, in effect, a "public" person -- and to do so would take a LOT of his time (assuming that the legal time could somewhow be supported financially).  If I might ask, if you do get legal advice, could you inquire into the possibility of acting proactively in response via the British system?  Maybe the "public" person situation does not hold there, or less so.  I only ask you to consider this question on my part; obviously, please do what you deem best for your situation.
Finally, I have shared the MM letter and UCAR response before only with one other scientist, a now retired emminent person here in the US whom I asked to look over all the materials and give me his frank opinion if he felt we had done anything inappropriate.  He came back with a solid "NO", and said that what MM were attempting was "unspeakable".  Caspar has mentioned that UCAR said to him they did not want to disseminate these materials publically, and I have kept to that, other than the case mentioned.  It seems clear to me that providing them to you is appropriate; I have not contacted Caspar to think about it at this point, and don't feel I need to.  Anyway, this is just to give you the context on that side of things.  I would imagine that sharing the doc's with legal persons you trust would be OK.  
Note that I am now out of contact through July 9.  I wish you all the best!!
Peace, Gene 
