Happy Indiana Primary Day!
In a short time, the polls will close in Indiana and we wanted to share with you and your teams some topline information on their Delegate Selection process.  On our side, there are 83 pledged delegates up for grabs today.  Below, please find a brief summary of the process; attached you will find the internal fact sheet.
As always, please let us know if you have any questions.
INDIANA (Primary)
Polls open at 6am ET and 6am CT and close at 6pm ET and 6pm CT
Results can be found here:
<<link>>
<<link>>
Democratic Process
There are a total of 83 pledged delegates that will be allocated proportionally based on today's results.  A 15 percent threshold is required in order for a presidential contender to received pledged delegates at either the congressional district or statewide level.
The delegate breakdown is:
District Level-56 delegates
PLEO- 9 delegates
At-Large-18 delegates
District level delegates are allocated based on the results in each Congressional District. The PLEO and At-Large delegates are allocated based on the statewide results.
In addition to the 83 pledged delegates, there are 9 unpledged delegates from Indiana.
Republican Process
All 57 of Indiana's delegates to the Republican National Convention are allocated to presidential contenders in today's Indiana Presidential Primary. 27 district delegates are to be allocated to presidential contenders based on the primary results in each of the 9 congressional districts: each congressional district is assigned 3 National Convention delegates and the presidential contender receiving the greatest number of votes in that district will receive all 3 of that district's National Convention delegates.
30 (10 base at-large delegates plus 17 bonus delegates plus 3 RNC delegates) statewide delegates are to be allocated to the presidential contender receiving the greatest number of votes statewide.
In addition, 3 party leaders, the National Committeeman, the National Committeewoman, and the chairman of the Indiana's Republican Party, will attend the National Convention as bound delegates by virtue of their position.
A delegate shall on the first ballot at the national convention support the candidate who received the highest number of votes if the person is a candidate at the convention. If the presidential candidate is not on the ballot the delegates are no longer bound.
