<x-flowed>
Mike et al,
Sorry about the multiple sendings. I've forgotten my glasses and 
couldn't see I'd
missed a comma.
Another thing to point to is the special issue of Climatic Change by 
Astrid Ogilbie
and Trausti Jonsson.  They point to the LIA not being very appropriate in 
Iceland.
Cheers
Phil
Mike,
So Julia handled it. Even she thought it was handwaving, but it 
passed the usual
Science review process.  Obviously this isn't great as none of us got to 
review it. Odd
that she didn't send it to one of us here as she knew we were writing the 
article she
asked us to !  Anyway that is water under the bridge.
As for authorship we have this article coming out so this rules us 
out.  Tom isn't
keen and he's away.  Wally told me he didn't reckon Tom, so Tom has got 
the right
vibes. Julia is asking us to go ahead and hinting at a joint response. 
One possibility is
either you or Macolm taking the lead.  Malcom and Henry wrote the MWP 
piece in
Climate Change in 94. Keith and I think something pointed about the MWP 
is the way
to go. Could add in that even the two warming periods in the 20th century 
don't show
warming everywhere - especially the early 20th century.
Remember that we are all basically averaging long series together and 
if one site
shows a big warming/cooling then the average will to a lesser extent. 
Also bring in
a few of the papers where people have compared tree based reconstructions 
with
glacial advances/retreats (eg Raper et al in J. Glaciology and Luckman et 
al in the
Holocene. Also there are more in that Interhemispheric Linkages Book of 
Vera amd
work by Ricardo Villalba and others).
Basically need to point to a load of literature that we would expect 
someone writing
an article of this type to be aware of. Also the North Atlantic isn't the 
last word in NH
and global averages. Clearly said in Hughes and Diaz and papers therein.
Also the latest IPCC report will use and reference the latest curves, 
but from
1400 they are not that different from Bradley and Jones (1993), so why 
the fuss now.
Clearly the MWP is the issue that has got a few worked up, but we have 
concluded
nothing that couldn't have been gleaned in 1994. Maybe we're stating it 
more clearly
now, but the recent warmth of the 1990s is a factor as well.
Cheers
Phil
Prof. Phil Jones
Climatic Research Unit        Telephone +44 (0) 1603 592090
School of Environmental Sciences    Fax +44 (0) 1603 507784
University of East Anglia
Norwich                          Email    p.jones@uea.ac.uk
NR4 7TJ
UK 
