NSM News Release:
Rock Against Illegal Immigration Show #2 
On Sept. 1st NSM Records is sponsoring a Rock Against Illegal Immigration show. It will be held outside of Omaha on private property after the Rally at the Mexican Consulate. Featured bands will be Total War with two special guest bands to be announced at the show. The after rally events include a bbq, live bands, on site camping for Saturday night, social activities/fun, NSM Records booth, tattoo artist, and the grand finale "the lighting of two 8 by 8 ft. swastikas"!!! 
This will be the second Rock Against Illegal Immigration show, the first one was held at the NSM SC. State HQ Building and featured Empire Falls, Definite Hate, and Total War (Brutal Attack was also scheduled, however vocalist Ken McLellan was deported back to the U.K. after arriving in the U.S.)
We are asking for only a small $10. donation per person at the door to help cover the costs of the bbq/food, and the bands travel expenses. This is a Family friendly event, children get in free. 
More information about the Rally see: <<link>>  and there is also an excellent downloadable flyer at www.nsm88.com  to print and distribute. 
Other NSM News: 
NSM Commander Jeff Schoep was featured on Stormfronts "White Lightning" Radio show for an interview about NSM Records and the bands on the label. Listen here: <<link>>
Dan Carlson vocalist/songwriter from Total War was also featured on White Lightning Radio the following week, and did a great job. That archive is not available yet, however both shows will be linked from NSM Radio www.nsm88radio.com  in the near future. 
NSM Commander Schoep was also a recent guest on the Audio Martini Radio program. Audiomartini usually focuses on Paranormal studies, however they also interview Professor's, and other intellectuals from time to time. Mark Weber (Institute of Historical Review) and a leading Holocaust Revisionist was once on the show as well. Here is the show archive from audiomartini: <<link>>   
Play / Save
Episode Description
Audiomartini-American Nazi Jeff Schoep
NSM also has a new flash intro currently up on the Mainsite nsm88.com check it out, and give us your feedback on it. 
