PLEASE FORWARD THIS MESSAGE
Hello,
My name is Reverend Michael Davis of Mount Olive Ministries, Tarpon Springs,
Florida. I am a Christian minister. I am not a Scientologist. My church
serves an historic area of our town, the Union Academy neighborhood. Once a
proud center of opportunity and learning, it is now ravaged by drugs. Right
down the street from my church, I have seen drug deals take place. I have
seen so many lives ruined by illiteracy, crime, and immorality. Drugs are
right at the heart of the problem. Theres not one family that hasnt been
touched by the problem, one way or another. There are more than four hundred
drug-related arrests each month in our community. Even members of my church
have sons and daughters going in and out of prison with little hope for
anything better.
Two years ago, I received a vision for my ministry. I was called to create a
special place of help that I would call The Dream Station. I saw that so
many people have dreams that they cant realize simply because they do not
have the correct tools. I would build a place where people could find the
correct tools for their dreams. People having problems with drugs could get
off drugs. Those seeking better jobs could get better job skills. Those who
dont know how to read could learn. The people of my community could gain
the tools to make better lives for themselves and their families.
I have found a way to create The Dream Station, to provide the help my
community needs so profoundly. In my quest for these tools I met a local
Scientologist, Doyle Mills, who introduced me to Narconon, the drug
prevention and treatment program using technology developed by L. Ron
Hubbard. I have found tools in these programs that I can use to help the
members of my community.
I have thoroughly studied the program and evaluated their success rates. I
have studied alongside former drug users on the program and I have seen what
the program does for them. I am convinced that these programs offer real
help to those who need it.
I am currently working full time to open a Narconon center as part of my
ministry. I am doing my training at Narconon Clearwater and have applied for
my Narconon license. I am asking for your help in creating my dream, helping
the members of this community achieve their dreams of lives free from drugs,
better jobs, even the simple literacy it takes to read a menu, apply for a
drivers license or employment.
To create a space in which this rehabilitation can take place, to hire and
train staff and to promote these programs in the community will require
$100,000. I am asking you to help directly by donating the funds needed to
establish The Dream Station. We have to act quickly to reduce the arrests
and drug use. The faster we work the more lives we can save. These people
have no future as long as we do not handle their addiction. I would like to
extend a personal invitation for you to meet with me, and with my friend
Doyle Mills, where we can fully brief you on my plans to use L. Ron
Hubbards technology to help restore our community.
I look forward to hearing your ideas and working with you!
Sincerely,
Reverend Michael Davis
To meet with Reverend Davis, contact Doyle Mills at 727-871-0970 or
user@domain.com 
