Agree with all
body {  font-family: "Calibri","Slate Pro","sans-serif"; color:#262626 }
Just watched the revised animatic and wanted to share some thoughts...
Mavis's "issue" of wondering if getting married will limit her opportunities in life is at odds with her issue the rest of the movie. I think it's misleading. 
In fact, all of the business before the wedding feels superfluous. The news of the wedding isn't the conflict in the movie. 
What if we open on the montage of Mavis and Johnny's wedding but make it into an opening titles sequence. Make it really fun and a bigger production/musical number. 
Better if the first announcement of the movie is "I'm pregnant" and Mavis' heart to heart with him is about the pregnancy/baby rather than getting married. Also I think it would be better if Mavis' question - "you don't mind that he's humany" and Drac's
response "monster, humany, unicorn" was about the baby instead of Johnny. 
It's not totally clear whether Drac is preoccupied with Dennis being a vampire from the moment he's born or only once Johnny's parents suggest Mavis and Johnny should move to live with them? Is his issue that he wants a grandson who is a monster or that
he's afraid of the consequences to his family if he isn't? 
Why is it good for Johnny to be in on Drac's plan to take Dennis away? Maybe it would be better if Drac hatches the plan with Frank since the monsters then help sell the idea to Mavis in the next scene anyway. 
Not sure we want to emphasize that Mavis and Johnny have lost their zing. Too many ideas. There's also an odd negative commentary on marriage that Mavis thinks she won't get to pursue her dreams if she gets married and then within a few years of having
a baby their marriage has lost its zing. 
The beats of Drac and the monsters demonstrating their monster skills isn't funny enough yet. After each monster fails to be scary there has to be a bigger joke to button those beats otherwise they feel somewhat anticlimactic. 
It should be Drac, not Frank, who says at the end of Act 2 that they need to go see Vlad. After resisting for the whole of the second act we need to understand how desperate he is to decide to go to this extreme. 
