By Isaac Arnsdorf | 05/17/2016 02:00 PM EDT
With help from Brianna Gurciullo, Mary Lee and Daniel Lippman
TRANSITIONS:
- Anne Wall is joining The Duberstein Group as vice president. She was previously assistant secretary for legislative affairs at the Treasury Department, deputy assistant to the president for legislative affairs and floor director and office counsel for then-Senate Majority Whip Dick Durbin (D-Ill.). "Anne played a pivotal role in securing some of Treasury's signature policy accomplishments, including Trade Promotion Authority, IMF quota reform, and the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action with Iran, as well as in protecting key administration priorities, including the Affordable Care Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act," Treasury Secretary Jack Lew said in a
statement.
- Ayal Frank joined Mercury. He was senior legislative assistant to Rep. James Maloney (D-Conn.) on defense, national security, foreign affairs and trade. He also worked for the Washington Institute for Near East Policy and founded the United States Kurdistan Business Council. Mercury's recent foreign clients include Turkey, Japan's Okinawa Prefecture, Qatar and Uganda.
- Ron Moultrie, the former director of operations at the National Security Agency, joined SBD Advisors as an adviser on cybersecurity, global threat and risk analysis, and national security and technology issues. He is also president and CEO of Oceanus Security Strategies. <<link>>
- Erikka Knuti joined United Food and Commercial Workers as communications director from Purple Strategies and Ogilvy Public Relations. She previously served as a communications director to Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and pro-Clinton group Media Matters for America. She has also worked for former Reps. Joe Sestak (D-Pa.) and Dave Obey (D-Wis.). <<link>>
- Digital public affairs and advocacy firm Beekeeper Group recently hired two new account managers: Angela Barnett from Hager Sharp and previously the Credit Union National Association; and Walter Torres from the Air Line Pilots Association.
- Christina DiPasquale started her own communications firm, Balestra Media, after FitzGibbon Media's demise. She ran media relations for Sunday's screening at Tribeca of the documentary "When Elephants Fight," produced and narrated by Robin Wright, about mining in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
- Communications and public affairs firm Clyde Group hired Shannon Murphy as health care director from Burson-Marsteller. 
- Thomas W. Ross, the former president of Davidson College and the University of North Carolina system, will lead the nonpartisan Volcker Alliance. (h/t BLJ Worldwide)
HAPPY TUESDAY! Thanks for reading PI. Please keep the tips coming to user@domain.com.
SOUL SEARCHING: Karl Rove will speak at an "Election Introspective & Reception" (!) benefiting Rep. Jim Renacci (R-Ohio), America's Future Fund PAC and the National Republican Congressional Committee at the Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio, this weekend.
- Political adviser and restaurateur Fritz Brogan, Sandboxx CEO Sam Meek, Christian Hoehner of the Data Coalition, writer Kathleen Rooney, Dane Bahnsen of Wise Public Affairs, Liam Donovan of Associated Builders and Contractors, Gator Greenwill of GKG Capital Management, Nate Walton of Sachem Strategies, and Jerri Henry of Campaign for Platform Reform & Protect Internet Freedom are hosting a Young Professionals reception for Speaker Paul Ryan and Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.) tonight, according to an invitation obtained by Playbook's Daniel Lippman.
LOBBYISTS FOR TRUMP: Jack Burman, founder of lobbying firm JM Burkman & Associates, is organizing one of the first fundraisers for Donald Trump, who has volubly spurned special interests, reports David Catanese for U.S. News & World Report. Burkman said he hopes to raise as much as $300,000.
LOBBYISTS FOR HILLARY: Craig Snyder, GOP lobbyist and consultant, is mobilizing Republican members on K Street for Hillary Clinton. In an email to former staffers of the late Sen. Arlen Specter obtained by Roll Call's Kate Ackley, Snyder said, "Of course, I don't presume anything about any of your views, but am writing in the hopes of finding out. Anyone who might be interested in being associated, in any way, or to any degree, with a Republicans for Hillary effort, I would very much appreciate it if you would let me know at your earliest convenience." The email's recipients includes Dan Renberg, who lobbed for Trump in 1999, and American Continental Group's David Urban, who's volunteering
for the campaign.
UNFOLLOW: Facebook is doing damage control with conservative leaders after reports it suppressed right-wing news sources, report Tony Romm and Hadas Gold for POLITICO. "If they start to get labeled as a biased platform, that's absolutely going to impact how I think conservatives spend money, how they think about the platform, and their trust in [what they're] reading," said Vincent Harris, head of Republican digital consulting firm Harris Media. Facebook has reached out to Republican National Committee chairman Reince Preibus and the National Republican Congressional Committee, and CEO Mark Zuckerberg will meet Wednesday with Barry Bennett, top Trump aide; Zac Moffat, formal digital adviser
for Mitt Romney; conservative commentator Glenn Beck; S.E. Cupp, political commentator on CNN; and former Sen. Jim DeMint, president of the Heritage Foundation.
GREEN-LABOR RIFT: The AFL-CIO's anti-Trump partnership with billionaire climate activist Tom Steyer drew protests from eight union presidents including Sean McGarvey, POLITICO's Brian Mahoney and Anna Palmer reported. Some member unions are embracing environmentalism to further its progressive agenda, but tothers fear the AFL-CIO is fostering financial and political interests that conflict with its members' interests.
SPOTTED: RightNOW Women PAC last night had its May Day Event with Sens. Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.) and Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Reps. Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.) and Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Kathy Szeliga (Running for Maryland U.S. Senate), Jenn Higgins (Chamber Hill Strategies), Elizabeth Brooks (CVS Health), Jean Card (Jean Card Ink), Walter Torres (Beekeeper Group), Jane Adams (Johnson & Johnson), Sabrina Schaeffer (Independent Women's Forum), Patty Stolnacker Koch (VMware), Catie Horst (Emergent BioSolutions), Anita McBride (American University), Joyce Gates (Warehouse Productions), Shelley Hymes (Angel Enterprises), Sue Zoldak (The Zoldak Agency) and April Canter. The Distilled Spirits Council provided
a bourbon tasting booth.
- All In Together, a nonpartisan campaign to empower women in civic, social and political issues, brought 25 women executives to Capitol Hill today for their Spring 2016 Women's Leadership Day from Sanofi, PwC, State Street, EY, Ocrolus, Seimans, Kate Spade, Deloitte, Girl Rising and KKR.  They met with Amy Dacey of the DNC, Katie Walsh of the RNC, Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), senior senate staffers, the White House and U.S. Treasurer Rosie Rios. (h/t The 316 GROUP)
NEW JOINT FUNDRAISING COMMITTEES:
Brad Wenstrup Victory Fund (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Joint Fundraiser)
NRSC Targeted State Victory Committee (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Joint Fundraiser)
NEW PAC REGISTRATIONS:
American Dream Now (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Association of Global Automakers Political Action Committee (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
Building Bridges, Not Walls (Non-Qualified Non-Party, Unauthorized)
LG PAC (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
Stand Together Against Trump (Independent Expenditure - Person or Group, Unauthorized)
Tarheel State Rural (Independent Expenditure-Only Committee, Unauthorized)
NEW LOBBYING REGISTRATIONS:
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP: Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico
Dewey Square Group: Computer Science Education Coalition
Holland & Knight LLP: Portland Harbor Common Interest Group
Nelson, Mullins, Riley & Scarborough: BCO, Inc.
Perkins Coie LLP: Ligado Networks
Polaris Government Relations, LLC: Generic Pharmaceutical Association
Sixkiller Consulting, LLC: Palm Center
Thompson Coburn LLP: TransUnion LLC
NEW LOBBYING TERMINATIONS:
Capitol Counsel LLC: BI INC
WestRock Company: WestRock Company
TERMINATIONS - NO ACTIVITY:
Mercer Strategic Alliance, Inc.: Crown Technology, LLC
To view online:
<<link>>
To change your alert settings, please go to <<link>> or <<link>> email was sent to user@domain.com by: POLITICO, LLC 1000 Wilson Blvd. Arlington, VA, 22209, USA
To unsubscribe,<<link>>
